Afternoon. My name is Richard Gabbert and I'm chief of staff of the crypto task force and it's my pleasure to welcome you to today's roundt. Know your custodian key considerations for crypto custody. This is the third of five roundts in the commission's spring sprint toward crypto clarity. For too long, investors and the firms that serve them have been subjected to significant uncertainty with respect to how regulated entities can custody customer assets in a manner compliant with our rules. This uncertainty has not

advanced investor protection. Investors wanted access to crypto assets whether through a commission regulated entity or otherwise, but the commission effectively deprived them of the choice to have their assets held by a registered entity or a qualified custodian. Today, we're fortunate to have two separate panels, one dealing with broker dealer custody and the other with custody under the 40 acts. Both panels feature experts with years of experience studying these issues and they'll help us think through how best

the commission can provide clarity and certainty in this space. Thank you all for agreeing to participate in this discussion. We're also fortunate to have our new chairman join us for what I believe is his first appearance as chairman at a public event of the commission. At his swearing in this week, Chairman Atkins made clear to the president his intention to bring a rational, coherent, and principled approach to digital asset regulation at the at the SEC. The task force looks forward to helping the commission

execute Chairman Atkins and Commissioner P's vision for a rational and right-sized regulatory framework for crypto assets. The task force would also like to express its appreciation to Commissioner Uea for creating the task force as one of his first official acts as acting chairman and for his support during his acting chairmanship. I've worked for Commissioner Pur for over seven years and for many of them she was alone in calling for the commission to take a sensible approach to these issues. It's

been refreshing to have Commissioner Uea so aligned on the subject. Before I turn the podium over to Chairman Atkins and our commissioners, I would like to remind everyone that this event is being streamed live and is being covered by multiple media outlets. Accordingly, please be aware that all remarks by commission officials, participants, and members of our audience will be on the record. In addition, please remember that the participants in today's roundt speak on their own behalf and that their

views do not necessarily reflect the views of the commission, the commissioners or members of the commission staff. We're now ready to begin with remarks from Chairman Atkins, followed by Commissioner Krenshaw, Commissioner Ua, and Commissioner Pur. Mr. Chairman, So uh thank you all very much uh for coming today and uh listening uh online out in uh in the internet land and uh so welcome to the third round table of the SEC's crypto task force and as Richard was saying you know I really do salute

uh the commission and uh you know taking this initiative on and uh uh commissioner ua for uh you know acting on it and obviously for commissioner pur all the staff's work. But so this is now my fourth day um back at the commission after two prior uh um uh stints here and I really um you know have uh you know am uh you know looking forward to working here and uh and eager to tackle uh long festering issues such as the regulatory treatment of digital assets and distributed ledger technologies and

working with my fellow commissioners and the staff in doing it and soliciting outside input as Obviously, so in addition, my warmest personal thanks go to Commissioner Pur for her principled and tireless advocacy for common sense crypto policy within the United States. It's no wonder that she justly has earned the title of crypto mom and Commissioner Pur is certainly the right person to lead the effort to come up with a rational regulatory framework for crypto assets in their markets. And thanks also uh to the panelists both in

this panel and the one to come uh for volunteering their time and expertise on a Friday afternoon to uh to come here and join us in Washington. So this is important work as entrepreneurs across the United States are harnessing blockchain technology to modernize aspects of the financial system. I expect huge benefits from this market innovation in terms of efficiency, cost reduction, transparency and risk mitigation. Market participants engaging with this technology deserve clear regulatory rules of the road. Innovation

unfortunately has been stifled for the last several years due to market and regulatory uncertainty that unfortunately uh the SEC has fostered. So I look forward to engaging with market participants and working with colleagues in President Trump's administration and Congress to establish a rational fitforpurpose framework for crypto assets. So today's round table is focused on the challenges that SEC regist attempting to safely custody crypto assets for their customers in compliance with the federal securities

laws. For example, are changes needed to the custody rules under the Exchange Act, the Advisors Act, or the Investment Company Act to accommodate crypto assets in blockchain technology? Is the special purpose broker dealer so-called regime uh workable for market participants or is a new crypto asset broker dealer framework needed? The market itself seems to indicate that the current framework badly needs attention. So you all especially on the panels can help give us direction in that regard. So thank

you all for again for dedicating your Friday afternoon to helping us address these very important issues. So I look forward to a productive discussion and and so you all can get to it. So thank you very much. [Applause] Good afternoon. Before I begin, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome our new chairman, uh, Comm Atkins to the commission. I'm looking forward to working with him, uh, and my fellow commissioners in furtherance of the AY's important mission. So, custody, the concept of custody in the

federal securities laws is based on the idea of trust in our everyday lives. Relationships involving trust are everywhere. For example, when we fly, we generally trust that we can give an airline our luggage and they won't steal it. And generally, it will be delivered to its destination safely. Of course, luggage gets lost sometimes and that's inconvenient and frustrating. Maybe you lose some clothes or your vacation gets off to a slightly more stressful start. But just for a moment, imagine that a

significant portion of your life savings is actually in that luggage. Would you ask the airline a few more questions before checking your bag into their care? Would you want assurances that they are required to take certain protective measures to safeguard your luggage? that they have robust policies and procedures designed to prevent loss and damage and that they bear accountability in the event that they do not follow through on those policies and procedures and your savings are lost. Trust is a particular important in

our relationships with financial institutions. That's why our custody regulations are so important. We have seen that harm befalls investors when their money is in the hands of untrustworthy actors. The worst of those cases are infamous. But beyond trust, history has taught us that even the most responsible actors need regulatory standards to effectively safeguard customer assets. So the questions that bring us here today are whom can we trust to safeguard client assets? What basic standards should we apply to ensure that

we can trust our custodians? Should the rules be any different for crypto assets? Are there features of crypto assets distinct from more traditional assets that warrant distinct rules? Some believe that differences between traditional assets justify exemptions or disperate treatment for custody of crypto assets under our rules. If we are to consider implementing an alternative custody regime for crypto crypto assets, something the SEC has not done wholesale for another asset class without very good reason, we must keep

in mind some guiding principles. Existing SEC custody rules are a gold standard of investor protection. Our regist attract customers. Our markets draw stability from the strength of this regulatory framework. If the SEC were to create a dual regime, how do we ensure that the crypto regime is as robust as the current regime? Additionally, how could the commission address increased risks to investors and the broader financial system that may stem from the different crypto custody rules? For example, how would the rules address

risks associated with holding assets on a blockchain such as those stemming from protocol or smart contract operations or failures? And what about hacking? Also, the nature of the blockchain means that custodians cannot establish exclusive control over digital assets with the same mechanisms used in connection with traditional securities. Can we effectively hold custodians accountable for mitigating such risks? If so, how? How would we ensure that investors have clarity regarding the differences

between the risks associated with traditional custodians and the risks associated with crypto asset custodians? What steps would we need to take to help investors understand that these entities do not offer the same protections? What investor disclosures would be required under the applicable fiduciary obligations? What protections would exist for investors if their custodian becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy? Existing securities law provides protections against this risk, for example, by providing for Cypic to

step in when a brokerage firm fails and customer assets are missing so that CIPC may work to return customer assets. Will such protections be available for crypto assets if there are different standards for custody? I understand today's round table will be separated into two segments. One focused on investment advisor and investment company custody issues and the other on custody in a broker dealer context. There are important distinctions between these two frameworks that should be considered

today. For the asset management industry, the custody rule gives us a clear answer on who advisers must trust with custody of advisory client assets, a qualified custodian. The rule does not intend for just anyone to meet this standard or this definition. It is meant to be a high bar accompanied by robust protections. In its recent safeguarding proposal, the SEC acknowledged the ways in which custody of crypto assets and the use of blockchain technology present unique risks and unique considerations. I expect today's

discussion will raise ideas like advisor self-custody for crypto assets and potential expansions to the type of entities that could meet the definition of a qualified custodian. I hope you will think through the ramifications for those possibilities. For example, what are the risks of self-custody generally? Would these risks be heightened with self-custody of crypto assets? Would a hypothetical exemption from the custody rule for crypto assets invite easier opportunities for fraud, theft, or misappropriation, even with additional

protections? Are most investment advisers operationally capable of safely engaging in self-custody of crypto assets? What are the barriers to crypto asset custodians seeking the licenses or registrations that would allow them to be considered qualified custodians under the custody rule? How should we think about state chartered trust companies? How do those entities vary across states? Do they all offer comparable protections? In what ways must we engage with our fellow financial regulators on these and

related questions? Should we require different or additional policies and procedures of advisers who custody crypto assets at crypto asset custodians? What should these important requirements such as independent verification of assets look like in the context of crypto assets? Does an adviser's fiduciary uh duty require additional due diligence for these assets? While registered broker dealers operate under a different set of custody rules, some of the most prominent crypto market players are large platforms not

registered with the SEC, which function as integrated brokerages and exchanges. They require customers to transfer their crypto assets into a wallet held by the exchange in order to trade on the platform or utilize other platform services such as lending or staking. One pressing qu custody question is this. If the platforms will be transacting in securities and be regulated by the SEC in some way, how should the SEC address the predominant practice of holding customers crypto assets in omnibus wallets? This question has been

considered by several thought leaders in the space, some of whom we're lucky enough to have on the panels with us today. They have pointed out that with omnibus wallets, customer transactions are largely tracked using books and records rather than through onchain transactions. In that context, where a majority of customer transactions are happening off-chain, what if any jurisdiction is there for different custody rules? Omnibus wallets also pose increased risks as compared to segregated wallets

such as exposing the assets to greater operational and external risks like hacking and theft. Given that, should we should exchanges or broker dealers be allowed to custody crypto asset securities and omnibus wallets at all? What are the other risks and benefits of custodying customer crypto assets in omnibate wallet omnibus versus segregated wallets? As you can tell, I am concerned about the potential for eroding the high standard required under our existing custody rules. While we have been and

should continue to be open to innovative and new products and technologies, such advancements do not require us to forsake fundamental statutoily mandated principles like safeguarding client assets. How can we bridge that gap so that investors are afforded consistent protections regardless of asset class? As with all the roundts today, these are hard questions and I had a lot today. So, I appreciate your patience. I hope you will help us grapple with these issues so that we can preserve the trust

that investors have in our markets. There is a lot more than lost luggage at stake. Thank you all for your partition participation in today's roundt and I look forward to uh hearing the outcome. Thanks very much. [Applause] Well, good afternoon and welcome everyone to the crypto task force's third round table which is focused on custody. Proper custody of client and customer assets have been a key protection under the federal securities laws. Crypto is not any different in principle. As commission registrants

increasingly engage with crypto assets, it's important that they have access to a number of custodial solutions that comply with applicable laws and regulations. While the office of the chief accountant recently removed a significant barrier for companies seeking to offer crypto asset custodial services by withdrawing staff accounting bulletin number 121 earlier this year. There is still work to do to ensure that there is appropriate choice among custodial solutions. For example, the commission should consider whether it is

clear enough that registered investment adviserss can use state chartered limited purpose trust companies to custody crypto assets as fiduciaries as qualified custodians in compliance with our rules under the Advisors Act. limited purpose trust companies with the authorization and oversight of a state banking regulator such as the New York State Department of Financial Services or the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, which I had the privilege of at one point being part of many years

ago, might be able to custody crypto assets as fiduciaries, arguably exercising fiduciary powers similar to those permitted to national banks under the authority of the Office of the Controller of the Currency. With respect to federally chartered banks, the office of the controller of the currency issued interpretive letters recognizing that national banks may custody crypto assets as a fiduciary under the national bank act and authorize multiple national banks to do so. Given the historical approach of

permitting state chartered banks to compete with federally chartered banks, the commission should consider allowing advisers to use state chartered limited purpose trust companies with the fiduciary power to custody crypto assets as qualified custodians. The commission should also consider further steps to enhance competition by modifying or sunsetting the commission's special purpose broker regime, providing interim guidance that explains how firms can custody nonsecurity crypto assets, crypto securities and traditional

securities in compliance with the capital and customer protection rules and ultimately perhaps even codifying this guidance in amendments to these rules. separately. The position of the prior administration that most crypto assets are likely to be funds or securities has led many advisers to shoehorn all client crypto assets into qualified custody and thereby forego certain investment opportunities that are incompatible with these custodial arrangements. I agree with Commissioner Pur that a large number of crypto assets are not

likely to be securities but the term funds is not defined in the custody rule and the commission may need to clarify whether any crypto assets constitute funds for purposes of the rule. Well, these are also a lot of issues to raise and that is why I am so pleased that we have these two very very well put together panels uh for this afternoon. uh there are a lot of questions and issues and thoughts for us to resolve and one of the most important things that we do as a commission is to engage and listen to the public and obtain this

feedback. So before we move on to doing what we need to do, I look forward to hearing all of the the comments today as well as the comments the public is submitting through our our written feedback file. So thank you to the crypto task force and panelists for your time in preparing this round table and I look forward to the discussions that will [Applause] follow. Good afternoon everyone. Thank you to um our panelists on this panel and the later panel. grateful for the time that you're spending today and the

time that you put in to preparing for uh for the panels. I also want to thank the um task force and all the other folks at the SEC who made this round table possible. Um I too want to thank Commissioner Ua for um your work as acting chairman and welcome chairman Atkins. Um, and also want to thank Commissioner Krenshaw who's been helpful uh, among other things in in helping us uh, put together the panels, finding panelists who can help answer some of these difficult questions. Um, it is going to be, I

think, a very interesting uh, discussion. Um, but let me let me add my own thoughts just quickly u before I turn it over to Zach. Thank you for moderating moderating today's discussions. So, children often play a game co called the floor is lava. The game requires you to leap from one piece of furniture to the next without falling or touching the ground because if you do, you perish in the burning lava below. So, of course, we have our own version of that game in DC and that is um has been really evident. It's been

played a lot in the crypto asset world and crypto custody I think is one area where it's really um really been played. Um we have a little twist on it. Um the burning lava is of course legal uh treachery. Um but but our twist on it is that we don't turn the lights on. So um to engage in cryptoreated activities, SEC reg po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po po poorly illuminated regulatory space to the next all while ensuring that they

never touch any crypto asset. A broker or ATS that cannot custody or otherwise handle an asset will find it difficult to facilitate trading in the asset and a a robust market is therefore unlikely to develop if investment advisers don't have uh don't know which crypto assets are securities, what type of entities are qualified custodians, and whether exercising staking or voting rights will result in custody violations. Advisers may not be able to serve their clients best interests. Similar confusion may

prevent investment companies from investing in crypto assets and investing in a way that would be most efficient or beneficial to the fund. It's time that we find a way to end this game. We need to turn on the lights and build some walkways over the lava pit. We of course should not take custodial obligations lightly. When an intermediary holds a crypto asset or any asset for that matter, investors in the intermediary itself can face serious risks. The commission must grapple with these issues. If we fail to do so, we prevent

regulated entities from serving their customers and elevate to the detriment of the American public markets and in intermediaries that may be less safe than our regulated entities. We must ensure that the custody requirements applicable to regulated entities further rather than impair investor protection and choice. And these requirements must not interfere with an adviser's discretion about how to fulfill its fiduciary obligations. A regulatory approach should recognize the differences across

crypto assets. Qualified custodians exist for some crypto assets, but for others, self-custody might be the safer option. Many tokenized securities involve the use of smart contracts or other blockchain related protocols that allow the issuer or its agent to take corrective measures in the event of an error or lost or stolen private keys just as it could resolve issues when using a traditional database. Indeed, distributed ledgers could mitigate some risks associated with traditional databases. For example, a broker

dealer's ability to control an uncertificate security onchain arguably makes it easier for the broker dealer to demonstrate that it's the legal owner of a security if the issuer or its agent were to mismanage any off-chain ownership records. Finally, we should acknowledge and welcome the fact that blockchain technology empowers investors by allowing them to self-custody, trade, and otherwise engage with their assets without the use of any intermediary. Our regulatory framework should not stand in

the way of these innovations by forcing intermediation. I look forward to hearing the panelist's thoughts on these and other issues. While this round table is focused on custody um and I I I think there are some tangential issues that I would also appreciate hearing views on if there's time um should the SEC amend or clarify other rules that may be just as important in protecting customer assets such as capital recordkeeping and financial reporting rules. Before turning it over to Zach, let me add to

Commissioner Krenshaw's already long list of questions another set of questions. So if you run out of things to talk about um you can you can answer some of these questions. Should Congress amend SIPA to address the treatment of crypto assets that are not securities as defined in SIPA? In the absence of any such amendments, how can we help ensure that customers receive their crypto assets and any cash deposited to purchase those assets in the event of a broker dealer liquidation? Does article

8 of the UCCC present a potential solution to this issue? Should we retain the special purpose broker dealer framework? Or should we clarify how any uh broker dealer may custody or crypto assets that are securities? What requirements should apply to broker dealers when custodying tokenized securities that are not bearer instruments? Should SEC staff modify or replace the so-called ATS three-step letter? If so, how? Should we provide any guidance or propose amendments to address how our rules apply to broker

dealers that use smart contracts to facilitate settlement? Given that rule 15C33 does not apply to crypto assets that are not securities, what can we do to ensure that broker dealers appropriately safeguard any such assets held for customers? Should the custody rules permit funds and advisers to place and maintain crypto assets with classes of custodians not currently contemplated by those rules? Alternatively, should the custody rules be principles based and incorporate qualitative criteria as

opposed to being f focused solely on certain entities that make custody assets? And finally, should we propose changes to the adviser and investment company custody rules to facilitate self-custody of crypto assets? And if so, under what conditions? That's all I have. Thank you. And go to it panel. [Applause] Afternoon. Thank you so much. Uh thank you uh to Chairman Atkins, uh Commissioners Ueeda, Pearson, Krenshaw, and to the staff for organizing this event. Um very uh happy to be here and uh thank the panelists

for coming and sharing your expertise on these issues. Um, I've heard suggestions from some crypto legal friends of mine that these panels would be great drinking games, uh, because there's lots of buzzwords and, uh, you can spend a lot of time listening for those buzzwords. And, um, to them, I'd say that they should be like the custodians that we're going to talk about today and make sure to do so responsibly. Coming out of a period that many have um viewed as regulation by enforcement. Uh

over the past few months, there's been a burst of energy among um a lot of market participants for all things that can be done with blockchain technology at ways to advance harness the technology for advancement. uh but importantly while ensuring that investors are protected under an appropriate regulatory regime. And lots of these discussions come back to the same question which is okay those things are all great working through the legal analysis. Now what do we do about custody? If an asset is a security

likely a broker dealer needs to be involved and that broker dealer can't custody the asset unless it can do so in compliance with 15C33 but there in most cases is no regulatory approved way for them to do that. uh when tokens are traded whether or not they're securities whether it's on a centralized exchange or DeFi can broker dealers or investment advisers actually handle the asset without there being clarity on this question and if we tokenize securities so there's no question that the asset is a security

then what how do we deal with the custody rule these are issues that have come up on a lot of the prior roundts but I think this one gets to this this um issue in particular that is think is really necessary to solve all the others uh it's an incredibly thorny issue by their nature, digital assets, blockchain tokens are not the sort of asset that the securities laws and rules have contemplated, at least not as currently written. My impression and others likely agree or I imagine agree are that for a

long time because this is a hard question, there wasn't really the regulatory appetite to tackle it, to dig in and figure out how to solve it. Uh there have been some efforts at guidance in the past. Joint staff statement um the the special purpose broker dealer guidance uh the three-step no action letter and the safeguarding proposal. But in many ways these sort of highlighted the challenges without really taking the step of solving it. So it's incredibly impressive and not a word associated with regulators that

much. I think pretty courageous that the SEC is now undertaking to do these hard things and also doing so in a transparent and open manner with a sort of regulatory humility that recognizes the importance of robust public input particularly from industry members that are really in the trenches and have the experience and knowledge of how to solve these issues. uh it may be difficult but the importance and centrality of custody uh is really important and critical to get right for innovators, investors and

regulators. So the commission has gathered a great set of panelists today whose idea whose uh whose backgrounds fit that bill as in past roundts their bios are available on the website. I think if you're watching online, it's probably linked on the screen. Uh so we're going to skip introductions. uh anyone uh who speaks if you could the first time you speak just say your name and your affiliation and if one regulatory uh regime for custody wasn't enough today we're going to talk about

three. This first panel is going to focus on broker dealers and the regulatory regime for them and panel this afternoon or later this afternoon is going to talk about investment advisors and investment companies. Uh so make sure to stay tuned for that one. A lot of the issues do cross over. So, beginning with our our first panel, uh I'll take a moment to set the stage for broker dealer regulation of custody. Um the exchange act prohibits a broker dealer from affecting a transaction in securities unless they are in compliance

with the SEC rules around custody. The SEC rules in turn require that broker dealers maintain possession or control of customers fully paid and excess margin securities. Uh possession traditionally meant a broker holds a physical piece of paper stock certificate in their vault while control means they hold custody through a third party like a bank or another broker dealer or clearing agency. So to start off is physical possession or control even the right standard for broker dealers when it comes to digital assets? And and a lot

of what we'll talk about today I may not distinguish between digital assets that are securities and not because I think often the custody issues are the same. uh is that the right standard uh or is there another concept that the SEC should be considering for digital assets uh than possession or control? And maybe I'll start with Mark. Thanks, Zach. Thanks everybody. My name is Mark Greenberg from Kraken. Um I'm not a lawyer, so I I'll try to stay out of the specific legal terms and uh

take an operator perspective at it. The first thing that's worth keeping in mind is crypto assets are best held at rest, safest, less likely to uh to cause issues like the bybit hack or otherwise. And what does that mean for custody and what does that mean for this rule? It really means how the the more the the more you segregate assets into small little wallets, the more you focus on them in that respect, the less the the more often you have to move it. The more often you have to move it, the more it

isn't at rest, the more likely it is to get stolen in some various uh exploit along the way. Um principal based rule is probably better than a technology based one in this case. And so techn is changing quickly. Of course, keys should be held in systems, not in uh not by people. And that means that the old rule of not my keys, not my crypto probably doesn't apply anymore in that respect. And so and smart contracts mean actually I may hold the keys, but I may not actually have control, effective control over the

asset at the same time. And so I would encourage and then multi-party control is also extremely important in this case as well and preferable in uh in providing the right safeguards and the right trust that your baggage isn't going to get lost along the way. Um all that together the more we can rely on GL based segregation versus wallet or keybased segregation the better. And so I think probably maybe an effective control standard might be the right one in this case versus one around physical

possession. And and I hope uh as we set the rules here, they'll be less focused on the technology and the wallets and the keys and those components and more focused on uh on on how do you make sure we have the right policies and controls on top of them. And I guess taking to the next step, what policies and controls do people think that should be? You know, Rachel, do you want to take a stab at that one? Um, yeah, sure. So, uh, I'm Rachel Anderica. I'm from Anchorage Digital. Um, we are a centralized custodian. Um,

so I want to just pick up on what Mark is saying. I think that for us, like the way that we've always thought about this and the reason why we got a federally chartered bank um, was in to comply with the custody rule. Um so it's not only I mean custody within the digital asset space is inherently a security activity right so we think of this as the banking service that we offer the security over those over those keys um and so when we talk about like what does that mean like what does security mean um you know we

think about the possession and exclusive control over that asset as being like part and parcel to how the security solution ution was built, right? And so that shouldn't be I mean there's lots of ways to uh that that that has been done. Um lots of ways that custodial solutions have sprung up. Um uh but kind of meeting you can meet those obligations of like proof of existence and exclusive control over the asset, right? Like you know I mean for us we have keys generated in hardware through air gap

through um air gapping. Um, so for us, the way that we think about our custodial solution, we built it around that concept of like the proof of existence and exclusive control and our ability to do that and to not really have to think about um, you know, what's held in like quote cold storage and then what's you know transferred into like a hot wallet for movement. Got it. So you I guess you're talking about are you talking about third party custody where a broker holds it through a bank or ways in which the broker can

hold it itself and do you think the broker should be able to hold it itself in accordance with those uh those kinds of controls? Yeah. So I mean we think that a bank is the best way to do this right there is a that's why we did this. That's why we have subjected ourselves to these rules. Um that's something that we thought that was important for institutional custody and for institutional participation in this um in this ecosystem. Um and so I mean a third party um subject to very a

very high degree of regulatory scrutiny and standards like not only from a you know a physical security uh perspective but also all of the um controls that you have around that right like your um fiduciary segregation of assets, your information security, your compliance with laws, rules and regulations. um the capital that you have allocated um you know against the risks that you have identified like all of those things um you know together kind of make a a standard that um is comprehensive and Veronica

you uh your firm provides um self-hosted self-custody wallets um do you think that that's a better alternative or a solution should broker dealers self-custody using their own wallets How do you think that plays into this question about how they custody themselves through others or customers doing it on their own? Sure. Thank you. Um I'm Veronica McGregor. I'm the chief legal officer at Exodus. We are in fact um a self-custody or unhosted um wallet uh retail like for consumers. Um and and

I think it's sort of paradoxical to consider. So just backing up a little bit to like the the you know original ethos of crypto right was self- sovereignty self-custody you no no no banks no intermediaries and here we are um but but um one when we say self- custody in regards to broker dealers it's not really self custody I mean they're custodying someone else's assets so it's not self- custody as it's traditionally understood um in which case uh I would suggest that uh anyone

who's going to be in charge of someone else's you know assets have you know very uh strict safeguards and framework around how they can do that safely because uh the one of the one of the not your keys not your coins you know that's the mantra of you know of uh you know crypto OGs at least uh one of the points of that is that you are in charge of what happens to your assets. And so, uh, at Exodus, one of the things I say is we couldn't steal your money if we wanted to because it's all in your individual

wallet. So, we can't do that. But if in the case where someone is actually holding someone else's assets, that's really not self-custody. Um, so even though what it would be instead is are they going to are are broker dealers going to be allowed to create to to custody their uh their customers assets? And so it's not really self- custody, but um in that case, as I said, I you know, when you're holding someone else's uh assets, uh you need to be extra super secure about it. Well, well, do you

think that we shouldn't have custodians? Everyone should hold their own assets and that's the safest way. You're not you don't need to rely on somebody else and rely on their security. Just do it yourself. Um I don't think that's practical or reasonable um to make that assumption despite the fact that we are a self-custody wallet and we definitely you know espouse like that that the safety of holding your own assets. It's not practical to think about people from different generations or people who, you

know, would prefer something that they consider more convenient. And some people, you know, would prefer the the more traditional route of uh of not having to, you know, memorize 12word seed phrase or, you know, or that they they want to reset their password, they can do that. And some people are much more comfortable. That's just their comfort zone is to have uh custody like in in a bank situation. Um, but I think the important thing to bear in mind here is optionality. What we really want to

do is preserve the option for end users to be able to custody their own assets and regardless of what kind of digital assets they are. Got it. Um Jason, turning to you in terms of the ways in which these can be secured and I know uh your firm provides primarily self-custody technology to to your clients. Um what are the kinds of ways that broker dealers or banks for that matter holding for broker dealers um can make sure these are securely held? Um and does it need to be done that way or are there other options? uh let's get

the SEC comfortable that this can be done in a way that is is secure and uh address some of Commissioner Krenshaw's concerns. Yeah, I'm I'm happy to be the person to uh do that. Um so, uh I'm I'm Jason Alante. I'm the chief legal officer at Fireblocks. Um so I I actually I I really want to reframe this conversation because I think there is an impulse to set self-custody solutions up against um custodial solutions, bank custody solutions, and compare the two. And I think in actuality they can both

be either really good or really bad, right? Um and so, you know, I think I think it's a way of thinking that was introduced all the way back in the 1930s. Um switching over to the investment advisor context now and looking at the qualified custody rule, right? Qualification in the qualified custody rule meant uh regulated entity status. If you were a bank, if you're a futures commission merchant, you were a broker dealer, you're good. Um what I could what I'm concerned about in the

digital asset context is there's no reason to believe based on pure regulated entity status today that you are a good custodian repository for digital assets that requires a further step and what I think we should be focusing on is taking that further step. So what I mean by that is the introduction of qualitative standards, principalbased standards for uh SEC registron firms that want to engage in digital asset custody, right? And this is something that I think ideally cuts across solutions, right? such that you

have a reasonable amount of trust as an investor that when you have your assets with the investment adviser with the broker dealer whether they are self-custodying or holding it at a bank custodian those uh those service providers are both being assessed in the same way and again with a qualitative eye and and how do they get assessed? Yeah. So I I listen I think there's a great opportunity for um for the SEC and and really the regulatory community to uh serve as a sort of forcing function. And

what I mean by that is right is that um when the SEC acts it can move the markets and move market participants more swiftly and more effectively than the industry can frequently do on its own. So by introducing qualitative standards and and again this can be uh uh principal based at a very high level. this can then um cascade down into guidance, supervisory guidance, right, and standards and you can have real qualitative things that you're looking at and you're assessing uh uh service providers for. Um and I think what that

permits you to do, right, is that permits you to get to a world where you have self-custody, you have bank custody, both are viable options, and we have the trust and again the comfort that both are operating in a way that's going to guarantee the the uh integrity of the assets. Got it. So, as was mentioned a few times, the SEC has this special purpose broker dealer framework. Um, it's not very much used at the moment. Uh, and it essentially says a broker dealer if it doesn't hold traditional securities, doesn't hold

digital assets that aren't securities, it can and a number of other conditions, it can comply with or at least not be subject to risk of being in of being in out of compliance with the customer protection rule if it has reasonable policies and procedures to do X, Y, and Z. Um, to m maintain uh evidence that it is uh safekeeping the the customer's assets. Um it I've heard a few people talk about principles approach. Does anybody disagree and think that there should be a way that there are specific standards?

Um or is a principlesbased approach um the right way to go so that it is somewhat flexible but maybe also harder to examine for and ensure are being met. Um Baylor, I see you uh you looking this way. Well, I'll take it in a bit of a different direction. Baylor Meyers here with BitGo, uh, one of the original crypto companies. I previously was at the Treasury Department. Uh, I don't think we need more regulation. What we need is clarity. Uh, so at BitGo, we firmly believe in independent qualified

custody and we believe through our state chartered trust company that we meet the definition of qualified. And if the SEC were to clarify that, uh, it would make it enormously more beneficial for us to do business rather than having to wave around a letter from a law firm saying, "Oh, you're qualified and this is what we think." Uh, if we have that clarity, we'll be able, I think, to operate uh more efficiently and uh meet investor protection. So, that's my view. Not quite the answer to your question, but

there is hopeful. Um Tammy, did you have have views on the principles approach or the specific mechanisms approach or or how you know waving around the letter about your legal status is great and uh I'm sure people have letters from us about those things. Um but the kinds of things that you need to get there and what should that status indicate or what does that the things you need to do to ever have that status? Sure. Thank you. Uh Tammy Win, uh Copper. Um, so I think I'm a little bit in between uh Jason and

probably Baylor uh to a degree. So I kind of compare it to the traditional financial world. And when I look at it, it's a taking a bit of a narrow focus to true traditional fiat paper uh coins, checks, things like that. When we look at our traditional financial institutions, I don't have to go to city to deposit my paper. I don't have to go to Chase to deposit coins and I don't have to go to another to deposit checks, right? Because there's a fundamental regulatory framework, there's

requirements, there's rules, etc. And there's a soundness and safety to that where these institutions follow that framework and so everyone's comfortable. So if there's it's principles-based, it's not product based, it's not assetbased. So if the SEC is determined that Secities are under their purview and whatever not getting into the conversation about what is a security on the digital asset side but whatever is determined to be a security no matter what that is why is that not then also

under the purview of the SEC it's custody that way and if the broker dealer is determined to have soundness safety security comp comprehensive compliance framework cyber security it's examined it's audited all the things that we know come under that umbrella. Why are we looking at it as a productbased assessment and not a principles and rules-based assessment? Well, are principles based and rules-based the same? Um, I mean, this is a discussion I often have. People like principles. They're inextricably

linked. They're not necessarily the same, but it's a rules and principles versus a product and asset. Got it. I think it would be the principal component is important because the rules will be out of date very quickly. I think that's that's the core of it. The one thing I want to just echo though is um you know so at Kraken we've been doing safe custody of client assets now for 13 plus years. We think we're pretty good at it. I think we are pretty good at it. Um, Anchorage is also actually

really good at it and um and uh don't leave us and but there are lots and lots of regulated entities that just don't have the experience yet. And this is a very complicated thing to get right. It is not like anything that you've custodied before. And so it is important that we don't accidentally reduce choice of provider and choice of um and and the ability for companies that know how to do this well to do it by artificially putting specific regulatory groups that can provide that at the moment. And so

maybe we'll get there and this will be get get easier over time and there are lots of great technical providers around this table and others who will help us get there. But it's not true in the next 6, 12, 18 months that this will be a really easy thing for someone who is a a regulated bank or otherwise to to do unless they've spent a long time at it. Brandon, um you're also representing a a regulated entity that provides custody. What is your view on how these rules should work and what should be required

or what principles should be should be imposed? Yeah, thanks Brandon Russell at custody. We are state charter trust. Um I think under the custody rule um right now you can kind of see that there is a framework for um regulated monies to find a pathway into this uh into this asset class. um as it relates to the the question about self- custody um or regulated custody I kind of view we've we've kind of viewed the fact that uh the providers that are providing self- custody are almost like SAS solutions

and the regulatory framework can be can be provided around them it gives your subset of clients uh a level of choice in that scenario and the regulatory responsibilities that you have or reporting responsibilities that you have are then beholden on the regulator ated entity facing off to the regulators. That's uh what we see the world as on that side. Um as it relates to other custodians in the place, we've also uh over the years deployed a best of breed scenario where we can plug into uh

Fireblocks or Bitco as a regulated entity. More specifically, Coinbase has also been a subcustodial layer for us. And this this provides our clients downstream to do their own due diligence and kind of figure out what uh what is best suited for their needs. There's another aspect to this though as well and that is uh the settlement aspect of it. once you start moving assets across multiple systems. So, uh we're we've been a long-standing friend of Kraken. Um but you know, clients do

want to uh have access to one marketplace, uh a digital asset platform like yourselves, and then perhaps another one like Coinbase, hypothetically speaking, the ability to move those assets across different wallets do uh pose uh challenges. And so having having systems in place uh and oversight in place that make sure that you don't have the tech risk or the reg risk uh and you doing the adequate reporting on it is is really important to to ascertain. I'm going to ask a technical question. Um as I mentioned the SPBD

guidance refers to brokers having to make sure they have exclusive control. And the question I've heard asked is how do you prove a negative? Uh how do you with paper stock certificate everybody knows there's one certificate maybe not but let's say there's one certificate uh that's in a vault you know that nobody else has it a private key for digital assets uh in some ways at least theoretically it's impossible to prove that nobody else has a copy of it. Um what technical ability is there if there

is one so that regulators could get comfortable that there is exclusive control that nobody else has a copy of the private key. Um I could start with Terrence on this one. I think we probably have a few people that have views. Sure. Uh Terrence Dempsey Fidelity Digital Assets. Um I I agree with you that trying to prove exclusive control is is challenging um of the private key on the wallet. You know, that said, I do think custodians have the ability to to demonstrate control um of their through their custody

practices. So, as you think about key generation ceremonies, having those audited, having reports you can provide to your clients or your regulator uh to show the standards, the policies and procedures that you have set up around those key gener key generation ceremonies, how you store your keys, how you control your keys, how you utilize your keys. Um you know that you therefore may not have ex cannot prove that you have exclusive control, but uh you have the safeguards that sit around that to help provide um uh you know a um

transparency around what what you've done uh uh for providing control of those assets. Um Rachel, yeah, I mean I think we talked about this before, right? And um you know, Baylor, you and I were talking about this um in the green room before this. um you know exclusive control over the assets is is part and parcel to the custodial solution that is being provided right so regardless of how you do that um and how those key generation ceremonies occur and how those keys are stored um most custodial solutions uh

should be able to be built in such a way that they are showing through facts and circumstances through a combination of your operational processes and your technology solution how exclusive control is um you know is exercised. Um so for us that's extremely important. It is like the core of the solution that our founders built. Um and so like you know I I echo that I don't think that that's a I I think that that's a red herring as a problem. I agree audits in the blockchain solve

it. So we don't need more regulation just clarity. Well, far me to suggest more regulation, but if the regulation is you've got to prove exclusive control, it sounds like you're saying um everyone is saying there are ways to do that. How you prove it can be done. When you say audits, can you elaborate more? Is that calling up, you know, one of the the big four auditors or is there something else uh like a code audit? Just uh to elaborate on that. Again, we uh you know, one of the original custodians. We have always

uh been audited. That's just our standard business practice. I think it's good business. If you're going to do business with us, you want audits. Our clients always ask, is this audited? And uh I think it's just that simple. Yeah, I think it is. It's both, right? So there are existing standards uh like sock audits that look at operational controls or your technology controls depending on the type um and could actually look at the policies procedures and the ongoing uh business practices

that you have. And then if you you know depending on the implementation you also have very cryptospecific firms that come in and and look at uh your environment um and what you've set up technically and can provide you a report on their findings any deficiencies and and how you you look to resolve them. And so I think there's both an opportunity for traditional consulting firms or audit firms that provide this or very cryptospecific firms to go in and and provide feedback on both of um those

cases. Mark, it seemed like you were going to chime in. Um there's no such thing as black and white. Maybe that's the one thing to say is uh you just want to have the right operational and technical controls in place. Are controls circumventable? Maybe at some point if you go far enough down the path of things that are extremely improbable and you put enough of them together. But at its core, these the right key ceremonies, the right technical solutions, you actually never have access to keys, the uh solve most

of this problem. And actually, I think the focus on keys in the regulatory regime is totally the wrong one. and uh takes us out of an effective control principles-based standard and into a specific technical component of that that uh is just the the best way to hold keys 10 years ago and the best way to hold keys today is not the same. And so if you and it I hope it will not be the same another five 10 years from now. And so we can't write rules about how exactly to hold your keys or we'll end

up in a spot in three years where actually we are causing harm to end clients not actually making it better. So the audit point is interesting because SEC rules for broker dealers require that they be audited require that their custody functions be audited. So it seems like it may be a slightly different kind of audit uh but you know not inconsistent with kind of the way things work right now traditionally. Um, you know, another topic that came up u some of the commissioners discussions were multi- signature wallets um

MPC are there things like that that should be required or just an option ratios between hot and cold wallets um limits of how how many assets are held in particular wallets. Jason, if I start with you on that, you know, I'm sure you your firm offers a lot of those solutions. Um, should those be mandated? Should the SEC mandate everyone use Fireblocks or should uh or or should um those be incorporated into their rules in some way or allowed to, you know, everyone to sort of figure out what the best approach is? Yeah, I

mean to to also pick up on the last question a little bit too, like we we shouldn't mandate the use of MPC technology. we should have in innovative and thriving and evolving and iterating you know technology solution land landscape. Now uh Firefox does have a deployment of NPC technology on the on the key front right that analysis it is it can be complex and I think it does help to have multiple data points right just to take it to a very simple example right in the retail context I generate a

wallet I might get a QR code I might get a password I write it down on a piece of paper right um uh I have now the ability to read and write to the relevant blockchain putting instructions about the disposition of the asset onto the blockchain there is no question. I think that this person has control over the digital asset, right? What happened in the enterprise context, right, is we got creative and we got innovative and we said that password written on that one piece of paper is a single point of

failure. And so what we're going to do to eliminate the single point of failure is we're going to tear that piece of paper up into four pieces and we're going to distribute them to different places. Right? Now, if a malicious actor gets one of those pieces of paper, they don't have control over the asset. Right? And so that's where this conversation around um how do we identify the controlling party in this multi key scenario uh I think comes into play. Um in Fireblocks's deployment of

this technology there is only one controlling entity. That entity is the customer and it's very clear and the reason that's the case is because they have key materials sufficient to read and write to the blockchain and Firefox does not. Right. Um the one point I would add to what other folks were saying about audits and controls etc etc. I like to let the parties speak for themselves. I think it's really helpful. And what I mean by that is why don't we have a look at the contract, right? So

if you um look at a VICO or you look at an Anchorage, I'm guessing that there is a safekeeping promise in there potentially, right? But it's basically a standard of care that a custodian adopts and says, you know, you give me your assets and I'm going to return them in a certain way. That's very clear in my mind evidence of a custodial relationship and that the parties intended to enter into a custodial relationship. Our contract looks very different and has all of the markers of

a SAS contract, right? um including um the allocation of responsibility and liability etc etc. Right. So I like to let the parties speak for themselves. I think it's another data point that can help broker dealers establish who is uh in possession or control. Yeah. Um I I I totally agree with that. Like our contracts would I mean they do look different, right? Like it's you know it's a completely different um you know client uh provider relationship um in a self-custody situation than it is from

for a custodian, right? Um, and I want to pick up on on Mark's point, which I think is uh, you know, a good one. And we talked about audits. Um, and we were talking about like service providers, but like, you know, our clients can just go onto the blockchain and see their assets, right? And so that's fully auditable. That's like full existence of the asset where they said it was going to be, right? So this is this is transparent. We provide an ability to move that asset. We don't we don't move

the asset for them. We verify institutional intent to move that asset to control that asset. Right? That is the clients. And so that is the custodial relationship that is provided in um in crypto custody, right? And so I think that that's like an important um I think that's an important distinction here um because the way in which that asset is moved is pretty important, right? And there are facts and circumstances behind it and there's multiple ways to go about that. But um I think that that's an important thing

that like it's not about like oh okay well I'm going to go and get you know some service provider to audit my processes. It's like can my client go out and see where their assets are and do they have a uh and are they able to use our platform to execute their institutional intent to move that asset to control that asset and clients can do that uh too with um even in omnibus wallets through Merkel trees and other mechanisms. Um, uh, yeah, I'll just leave it there. Hold that other stuff. And that's Well, that

raises a good point because your point, Rachel, about somebody be able to look at the chain and see how many assets are in the particular wallet. That works for segregated wallets. It doesn't really work as you were saying, I think, uh, or maybe it does, and I'd love to hear how for omnibus wallets where you might see there's x number of assets in there, but you don't know who they belong to beneath the custodian. There's there's good technology at this point in proof of reserve studies that you can build

with Merkel trees that allow you to cryptographically understand that that you have a share in in an omnibus wallet as well. So I I don't think it's the only mechanism. Is it a little bit harder? Does it have a little bit more work to do? Yes. But I think under a principlesbased regime, you could absolutely still um uh uh make that proof. Um the Canadian securities administrators tried the 8020 hot and cold piece and Rachel and I ran into this problem because uh on that definition Anchorage was not a cold

storage provider and the way they wrote it and it was basically out of date the minute they wrote those rules. And so back to the principles rules-based version um the best technology is going to move faster than the rules can be written and can be discussed in forums like this. And so we absolutely have to make sure that we're allowing uh broker dealers and everyone to use the best uh technical solutions out there. So the back to your original question, Zach, the like specific hot and cold ratios. I

would strongly uh encourage us to try and avoid things like that. Yeah. And I just want to add on to that. So in that regime, right, it was the way that it was written. It was like, oh, you know, Anchorage, nothing's in cold storage according to that. And then in some jurisdictions, it's like everything's in cold storage, right? And so it's like, all right, um, you know, we're getting a little bit too, um, in the weeds on how we're and how we're thinking about the about the technology and kind of

hamstringing and creating weird operational processes to to meet some kind of a definition of safety that's not not may not be helpful. Can I just say that listening to this so I'm plus oneing on on the um on the principles based um and you know the most effective laws that I have seen in regulations have been technology neutral and have been you know some are riskbased with a very heavy hammer like if you know look you have to do this thing we're not going to tell you how to do it but if you if you don't do it we

will come after you with a very heavy hammer and there were like risk based approaches with with very heavy liability at the end of it and let you sort out how to accomplish that. Um, so I think something like that, you know, principles, risk based is the only thing that makes sense in a in, you know, we're in a a world where technology moves. I mean, we all know law and regulation move really slowly. So, it's not even like a question about how how fast tech moves. So, I'm plus oneing on

that. That's my very that's my very comment. Um Rachel, coming back to you for a separate question. As we discussed, broker dealers can hold in a good control location. Banks are good control locations. Um traditionally, that's where the SEC's analysis ended. Okay, it's at a bank. We're done. Should it be the same way here? Or should the SEC be involved in saying as some staff members in the past might have indicated to me that the SEC would look through and sort of think about well how does the bank

custody and is it doing it in in a way the SEC would be comfortable with? Do you want to be regulated by the SEC? Me I mean good luck good luck piecing the visitorial veil of the OC. But um you know I think that creates a whole bunch of you know uh I mean that's where our analysis kind of ended. We're like, okay, you said we wanted to be a bank and and we had that opportunity. I think this is an interesting time um where we're seeing um more openness to the like of the um all credential regulators and even even

at this uh state licensing level um to open things up and really uh focus on their licensing um processes. there when we think about credential regulation and you know I've spent my life thinking about uh my professional life thinking about credential regulation there's a there's some things that credential regulators do very well right and the things that I mentioned before they um think very deeply about the um operational control environment of the financial service that is being offered right so that's

the number one thing and they're able to get in there you know really really specifically the second thing is that they're able to um they there are already laws and rules and regulations around how those things operate. How we treat customer information, how we think about books and records, how we provide things like statements, um how we report to our regulators, how we report financially. Um you know, all of those things are extremely important. um including the ability to hold appropriate capital on a risk basis to

make sure that we have um that we have the ability of the um of the of the entity to um you know to to live on. Um so I I think that it's ex I mean there's already a pro credential framework in place that has a lot of the things that um you know that you would that you would want from a consumer protection and a safeguarding perspective. I mean the other thing that is I think extremely important um is you know any level of bankruptcy remoteness right and like clear rules around bankruptcy

remoteness and and where the assets live in the eventual case of of bankruptcy. So there are various regimes in the United States that take care of that and I think that there's um you know but I think that we have a regul we have a set of regulators that like that's all they focus on. So I I sort of agree and sort of disagree, right? The poll, not the entirety, but a lot of the issues over the last several years is that there everyone is ha was having to pick and choose mostly from the Tradfi

regulations in order to attempt to be in compliance with what this the entirety of the space was doing. And I feel as though we'd be incredibly remiss if we didn't work, the industry did not work with the administration and the regulators now in what I believe will potentially be a bit of a short window to have some version of a unifying robust framework that works for the space. It cannot be it has to be agnostic to any of our particular businesses any of necessarily our specific products because that becomes a

very myopic view and that would be detrimental to the space but if we can work towards a unifying basic framework sorry Baylor but we do need a little bit more regulation in that regard right we do need something where we all can point to something and say okay we have some basic rules of the road. We have some basic framework to work from because then we can take our individual products, services, things that are going to grow. It won't be out of date the second it's written because I do

agree with things that that Mark and Veronica and Rachel have said, but we do have to have something unifying and robust at its core. And if we don't take the opportunity now, I'm not sure when the opportunity might come again. And I think this is ripe for that and we're being given that opportunity today. Well, that's a great segue to what I wanted to next question I wanted to ask about banks are good control locations. Um, federally regulated banks certainly um Baylor, let's start with you.

Should there be more clarity on what other forms of financial institutions um including state trust companies uh as commissioner yada alluded to qualify as um you know he was referring to the advisers act qualify custodian but similarly as banks for purposes of the 34 act. Yes. So I'll chime in and I'll follow up on what Tammy just said. I think when I say clarity it's essentially just that which is there is a framework that's been in place. It's worked remarkably well for the last hundred years. We have

incredibly resilient capital markets in the United States. Now, we have a new technology that needs some clarification. When my co-panelists talk about a regulatory framework, I don't know what that means. Uh it's very vague. It's very ambiguous. And what we need is clarity, not more ambiguity. Uh so, to answer your question, we think that state chartered trust companies uh meet the definition of qualified. And if the SEC gives us clarity, that would be wonderful. Brandon, yeah, I concur with that. I

mean, the the custody will identify state chartered trust as being qualified custodians. We need to obviously get the clarity to make sure we can hold ourselves out that way. So I would concur with what B had to say. Plus one here, too. So putting aside banks, uh, everybody knows what qualifies as a bank is one question, but banks are certainly under the current rules within the definition of entities that can be good control locations. Uh, are there other kinds of entities? Tammy, you were talking about

having setting some standards. Should those standards be um you are licensed as XYZ or is should there be something more general where entities that do these things um Terrence uh can start with you. Are there other kinds of custodians that should be able to hold custody um as for broker dealers in addition to banks and other broker dealers? Yeah, I mean I think I go back to the the point Zach you're making in and some of the other panelists like what are the principles or the standards that we are actually

looking for out of an entity type before just going and picking types of entities. You know, a bank was selected because it meets certain criteria, right? It is regulated by a super uh you know, it goes through supervisory exams. Uh it has audits, it has capital requirements. Um you know, the state charter regimes in in various states have a lot of those characteristics as well. And therefore, um they could be considered a bank as part of the act. And so what what I think actually instead of thinking about it in terms of

entity types, it are what are the things that that need to be looked at? Um and then what entities kind of fit into that? Um you know so potentially I guess right like I think um you know I do see banks being being right. I do think if a broker dealer wants to build the capability themselves and provide that that capability then they should be able to do that as long as they're meeting the uh principlesbased standard um that that is out there. just reiterate there aren't many organizations today that are really good

at this and so artificially limiting that I think will have negative consequences for crypto asset safety and custodianship. Artificially limiting it to entities specific types of you know leaving Bitco as an example because we decide state uh level chartered banks are not are not permitted under these these rules. we have to be careful to make sure that we we support and grow the entities that are are quite good at this today. Um, including, you know, spot market brokers like uh crypto bro market brokers like Kraken as well who

are actually also quite good at this. Just trying to make sure we don't artificially leave certain organizations out by requiring specific licenses that may or may not uh have any impact on whether they can hold crypto assets safely. I I think what I just, you know, kind of go back to is that investors will continue to have choice. Um, if they choose to hold an asset at a broker dealer, they may do so. And that broker dealer may have some limitations. If they don't want to hold it at a broker

dealer, they can continue to hold it at another entity or venue, uh, that may not have the oversight and safety and soundness that a broker dealer um, may be required to have as part of that. Um, so I'm not suggesting to artificially limit. I think if a customer decides that they want to um have their assets sit in a broker dealer, whether that's a consumer or an instit entity, that broker dealer will be subject to certain oversight. U maybe there are certain benefits to that customer of holding it

at a broker dealer, but they should still certainly be able to hold that wherever they want, under their pillow, under their mattress, or at another firm. Uh so I had mentioned earlier that for most purposes I would just be talking about digital assets whether or not securities but just come back to that should it make a difference um if a broker is holding a digital asset should it make a difference if it's a security or not a security should different standards apply there are legal questions around the SEC's authority

over nonsecurity digital assets when they are custodied by a broker but let's assume that authority exists is there any reason to distinguish um for SIPA purposes or security purposes or otherwise um Terrence if I can come back to you. Yeah, absolutely. Um yeah, I I think the risk profile of the two are different. um you know, a a a security or a digital, you know, tokenized asset that that that meets a definition of a security is um likely either to be registered or exempt from registration and subject to certain

rules and issued by a controlling entity. And there may be uh controls that are in place of that tokenized security that changes the risk profile uh of that asset versus a native digital asset. And so therefore, I would look at them very differently uh from an oversight perspective. So it sounds like something Commissioner Pur said a little earlier where the issuer has the ability to you know what are the words she used but freeze, burn, reissue um more likely the case in securities maybe the the

need for the same kind of security and custody solutions are different. Yeah, I mean the solution may be uh partially the same. Um but perhaps some of the oversight or governance or rigor that that it goes through could be different. Does anybody think that they should be exactly the same? Um regardless of whether it's a security, regardless of whether it can be cancelled and reissued. Uh Tammy, I don't I don't know if you do or not, but I no I I don't. And I think because at the core of the conversations

we're having I think um a lot of us and I don't I'm not speaking about the panel I just in general I think a lot of u people in this space we are not looking to dismantle um or fundamentally change the core parameters of the SEC or the CFTC or the FDIC etc etc right we're not looking to fundamentally just break apart how these institutions have been built and um what their regulatory regimes are. Um I don't think many of us are are looking to dismantle that. So at the core the SEC

regulates securities um to then all of a sudden start we're if those of us myself included looking to include digital assets that are deemed securities but then to now start breaking into that and trying to understand well now we're going to start to include things that are not securities and to Terrence's very good point about well the risk profiles are different and how things could be custody could be different we're now layering things that are even more complicated so my my personal opinion is

no I would not want to do that I but I would like to open up the aperture for other things that are securities Um Brendan, did you have any thoughts? Yeah, I can weigh that a little bit. Um I I think something that's been missed there is investor protections and how we really open up to broader markets. There's a whole lot of regulated money sitting on the sidelines and for that to really engage over year, we kind of need to figure out how we shoehorn this into the framework that the crypto space has

created. Um I do think that as uh Baylor mentioned earlier that there is a framework that's held well for the best part of a hundred years and it's been overseen by our federal regulators. Um being able to uh offer these things through broker dealers. Um whether they the argument whether security is or not is obviously crux to all of this. But I think there have been examples in the past where we've seen um oversight on an exemption basis or an exception basis uh take place and I think that's kind of

probably a better framework for us to operate where you can have a crypto asset class engaging as a new nent to an evolving asset class engaging a regulatory environment which is kind of playing catchup and if the regulators could give themselves an opportunity to uh let's call it give themselves some elbow room uh could be under a pilot for safe harbor. Um then maybe there's scope for us to all kind of work more hand in hand and instead of trying to really uh figure out what all the components are

trying to do in a way that kind of styies growth. So this ties into um another question that I think commissioner pur asked in her list a little earlier. Um the special purpose broker dealer guidance was only only allowed broker dealers um SPBDs at least to hold digital asset securities not nonsecurities. Uh and I think underlying some of the reasoning for that was CIPic and SIPA. It's all good if this has worked very well for the last, you know, 80 years, but if we're now bringing nonsecurities into broker dealers, does

that need to change? How should it change? What happens? Uh, if they're if the broker's holding non-securities and those do not get the same protections that securities do from a, you know, insolveny point of view. I don't if anybody wants to take that one. I don't know if uh we uh had somebody uh assign to sort of cover that question because uh it just came up in uh Commissioner P's introduction. I think if you want orderly markets and you want the confidence of regulated money to come

into the space in a meaningful way, you need to expand uh SIP's mandate on that. I know this takes an act of Congress, but I think that's probably the conversation that needs to to take place. Um I know it's it's a bit of a curveball you throw it down because it's outside it's outside the mandate of the SEC directly, right? But I I I do think that if you want to grow this asset class, there's got to be some kind of framework where there is exception for them to be able to add that insurance layer to it

to give investor protections downstream. you'd like to see, again, takes some more work than uh than is easy, but I'd like we I'd like imagine we'd like to see mechanisms where we don't have a lot of over overlapping uh jurisdictional oversight for the same things or for very similar things. And so if there are some assets regulated in this way and some assets regulated in that way um the more the principles can be similar and I think they can be similar and the more uh we can rely on

each other's rules and passport or other mechanisms the better so that we don't have to create three sets of the same rules with three sets of checkers of those rules potentially and that that's something that I important as we think about um CFTC SEC components of this over time and I it would it would be a tough situation to be in spots where we just had had completely unconnected paths around them uh for a topic like custody. Can I I just want to say that yeah I I agree with that. I don't want

fragmented u regulation or fragmented markets or anything like that. I think that we should find a way to harmonize all that so that people aren't trying to comply with, you know, several different regulatory regimes when when they're all basically trying to get at the same thing, which is consumer protection or protection of the market or whatever it is. They're trying to get at the same thing. They should be some way to harmonize all of it. Well, um I think Rachel, I think you were gonna going to Oh, maybe not. Okay.

Okay. Well, I just say welcome to America. wealth Washington where there's 25 regulators for anything you want to do. Um but speaking of which I thought you know Rachel as a representative of bank probably has 25 or more regulators that might make sense to have follow up. Well, so I mean I think what we're talking about here is so when we're talking about res resolution authority um you know that's like the centerpiece of um a robust marketplace, right? So like that's like the thing that to me um

you know brings together like the markets regulators and the credential regulators. So in the credential space right like resolution authority is something that like is hotly debated and you know and it's a reason why like you know the credential regulators don't really like um uninsured trust banks because you know they're like oh well you know we have to do this in this other way you know we have an a a financial regulator that's not really used to doing that who has to who has to

do that in the in the FDIC insured depository institution space you have a whole arm of the FDIC who does it So when you think about like resolution authority in the in the market space and for broker dealers um I mean you're talking about like that the entity itself right not necessarily like the activity of that entity whether or not like the assets that they are holding or custodying is a um is a uh security or not and I think that like fundamentally um being able to give the confidence that an entity is going to be like

resolved in an orderly marketplace like really is a cornerstone of of regulation, right? Like that's the thing that's the ultimate backs stop. Yeah. For broker dealers, it actually does matter because the way CIPIC works is that if the asset is a security, then it's covered. If it's not, it's not. And I think for banks, it's probably a lot different because they don't care. But what I'm saying is like for a digital asset, right? Like we should you should bring that in into that resolution

authority because because res resolution authority essentially is like the thing that gives the consumer the um the uh confidence, right? Um, speaking of resolution and insol and risk of insolveny and things going wrong, uh, even the most sophisticated custodians and crypto exchanges have incidents that come around and they get compromised. Um, Jason, I'll start with you. Recently there was a significant um exploit of uh Bybit which was a non- US crypto exchange not securities or at least not

the way the SEC thinks today securities. um what learning what do we learn from that you know in terms of how they're how they secured customer assets how what they might have done wrong what they should have done instead that the SEC could think about in terms of learning lessons that would apply uh to US custodians yeah sure um so I have I have three observations about about right and uh the first is obvious but I think worth underscoring um and that is that loss events happen too frequently in this

industry and uh we need to do a better job of reducing those I think all of us right um so the the the the second observation right is and this is something I've kind of like um gathered from interactions with the international regulators right and I think I think really we don't have a good answer to the question of what does good look like in custody right so you ask regulators around the world and they will tell uh institutions to use a physical hardware hardware device. Well, BBIT used a

physical hardware device, right? Um, you ask regulators around the world and they'll tell you to keep it in cold storage offline. Well, the assets were in cold storage offline at IBIT, right? Um, and I I don't think it's an accident in in a way, right, that a a physical device held in some uh room offline looks a lot like a gold bar in a vault, right? Okay. And I and I think it speaks to this kind of innate and ingrained bias we have towards uh you know uh physical asset security. Um but if we're

going to answer the question of what does good look like, we need to complete the migration to a digital native way of thinking about these things, right? And then I think that brings me to the role of the regulator. So I already said I I I think the SEC can serve a very important enforcing function. Um and and by that I mean you know finding the conviction to move us towards a place where we have better uh digital asset custody. Um I would analogize actually to the traditional capital markets. I

think we have the greatest and most robust capital markets in the world. But they are not the greatest capital markets in the world because they're easy. They are very hard and they're very expensive to access. And that leaves us with the best and most sophisticated companies coming here. Um I think I think we need to do something similar in the in the digital asset context. Uh everyone up here will I think agree with me. It is not easy to do digital asset custody. Well, we should we should be pushing SEC

regs to those who do and we should not be exposing them to those who have not demonstrated they can here. Here could I jump in real quick please? Uh with Bybit, I think it's important to note they did not have 100% cold storage and that was one of the biggest issues. They also did not have an independent qualified custodian like Bitco. And uh we learned this at Bitco uh when FTX went down. Uh there was a hack and BitGo was called in the middle of the night by John Ray who had taken over uh the

company after it went into receiverhip and we had to put together an emergency team and go in and secure the assets. Now had Sam Bakeman Freed used BitGo he might not be in jail. So this is important. It's very important. I I've not or been a fraudster. Well, right. Fraud and loss of custody might be a little different, but please tell me. I've heard so many people talk about the hack and like, can we please not put Bibbit in the same boat as FTX, which was a complete Ponzi scheme and he was a fraudster and Bibbit

was not that. Both are solved by independent qualified custody. Are we paying Well, I guess is I don't know if you've solved fraud by using a custodian in this way. Um, fraudsters will be fraudsters, I suppose, and they'll figure out ways around. Or maybe they're not, maybe not. How do you How do you prevent fraud? How can you prevent them from stealing assets if they are so inclined? To be clear, I'm not saying that we could have prevented the fraud, but had there been an independent

qualified custodian, there's no way the fraud could have been perpetrated because we would have known about it. Come on, Mark. I know you've got some thoughts. Okay. Uh, Terrence, I think this was a a matter you might have had some thoughts on as well. Uh, already said. Yep. Okay. Have nothing to add what Jason added. Got it. Mark, have you regained composure? Um, thoughts around ways to lessons learned from the buy bit. Um, and I I haven't called it a hack because I think hack is overused when something's an exploit.

Uh, you know, often hacks, in my view, are people getting into systems they shouldn't as opposed to exploits where people figure out ways to um still get into systems they shouldn't, but not like finding code errors, but more human social engineering, that sort of thing. The less Yeah, I'll just say I I said it a little bit earlier, but I'll say it again. Um, the less crypto moves around, the less people have to approve things uh to move it around, the better. If we if every time a gold trade happened,

someone had to put in a truck and move it somewhere, gold would get stolen more often. And uh that's why I believe heavily in omnibus wallets. Uh I it's actually they're they're related to this topic of um of bankruptcy remoteness of course but I think we overestimate the bankruptcy remoteness risk and we underestimate the exploit risk and uh too often I think the regulatory regimes are really focused on the bankruptcy remoteness risk and miss out on that piece. And so I would just encourage us

as we think about this. Less segregation means less movement. More netting and and longer time periods to net means less movement. Less movement means less likelihood of issues potentially over time. So uh go ahead. Yeah. And I mean I don't think that anybody disagrees with that. I mean I I think that you're absolutely right, you know. Um but I mean that can also happen within a custodial solution as well, right? And I think that like, you know, when we're thinking about like um a principles-based approach to regulation

and and kind of not making, you know, not limiting our um not limiting how we think about market structure by the technology that exists today, but rather thinking of from a first principles basis as to like what do we want our custodians or those those you know keeping client assets safe like what do we want them to look like and what do we want them to be able to do to solve like the problems that Mark is talking about operationally. Um that's that's how the regulations should be um you know should

be written. And I think that, you know, Veronica made a really good point about um, you know, uh, kind of like a liability regime, right? Where you're like, we're not prescribing specific ways to do it, but holding you accountable for an outcome, right? Um, and I think that that's extremely important, right? And like, you know, Jason, you said that too, like we have to do better in securing assets. We need to be held accountable to an outcome. So Mark, I I wanted to push a little on

something you said uh twice that you said it about um assets at rest being safest because this panel is about broker dealers. Um they're typically not just providing custody like banks might, but they are facilitating customers trading activity where by definition the assets are moving when they're being bought and sold. uh your point about omnibus custody works if everybody's a customer of the same firm. Do you think that should sort of be the standard for crypto? Should there be or digital asset securities? Should

there be a clearing function where the assets can remain at rest at the clearing agency and be immobilized the way DTC works? Like how do we how do we marry these two of it having a trading environment while also keeping the assets at rest? I don't think um I'm pushing for less segregation, not and and not no movement of crypto assets. Obviously, there will always be crypto assets that are moving, but you'd like to keep the moving liquid component of it smaller. And to do that, you can

group more. So, if two people trade on Kraken, we don't have to actually move crypto assets in that scenario. um when uh so you can move it less often. We can also um make sure that I lost my train of thought. Sorry. We uh we can also make sure that we have uh fewer geographical constraints. That's an option as well. Well, there's lots of different ways to potentially do that, but the the less we actually use uh we put big sums and we move lots around all the time and we don't net we

can do it once every a week trade between or move money between two broker dealers instead of actually every hour. Um the more we do that, the less likely each of those specific events is going to lead to an exploit potentially. And there's a balance between those two components of it, but we don't necessarily I don't think we always take that balance into account. And I'm not proposing that we move everything and never uh run any onchain transactions again. But simultaneously, we don't want

to make every single trade a onchain onchain transaction if we can avoid it because it that means you don't have to keep all of your assets in places where they can be put on chain and moved to somebody else immediately. So the less you keep in that super liquid bucket, the better. Uh if we went to a standard where you had end of day settlement, if you're not settling every day across your custodial, you know, centralized clearing uh model, then you got to deal with perfected interest. That's

something we don't really address. Um if you um I I think accounts should be segregated to the extent they can. I know you're not saying they shouldn't be, they should. You're just trying to create some efficiencies over here uh as relates to uh how capital moves or how crypto moves specifically. We also have to address what the counterparties uh in this broader ecosystem are are all doing. So to fetch liquidity uh and I'm just assuming for on your behalf here that you're not fetching at all

internally. You're going out to a marketplace to fetch that liquidity and typically they want to settle same day. I know you have a central order book and that's also got to be managed across the various entities based on where they're regulated and and you know that all ties into how we custody those assets as well so that you can actually enact settlement within the the window that's been suggested. Don't get me wrong, there's a balance between these pieces. I just think

historically we have balanced fully on the bankruptcy remote component and not so much on yeah whether whether we settle end of day. Um I have spoken to other regulators around the world who assume well it's your crypto assets they can be instantly settled so let's settle every transaction we should make sure we stay away from mechanisms settle every transaction on chain yeah I settle every transaction on chain in the moment that has its challenges too though absolutely because now now you're not dealing with

best order execution anymore are you and there's a cost to that gas certainly uh were you going to say okay um any other views on sort of it sounds like there's a bit of a debate between more segregation, more onchain separate wallets and versus omnibus. Um, anyone else have have thoughts on that uh dichotomy? I think how you hold those assets really comes into play. So, um, you know, for purposes of trading and establishing liquidity, uh, you probably want to have those in an account that's somewhat separate. So

it's um it's it's um it's held um for benefit of their trading for their tra their moment in trading. Uh and then when assets are no longer uh required uh for trading they go into a rest state which we kind of consider to be custody our internal nomomenclature and in that state then it's basically in lockdown um and it's not accessible to any form of outside activity. Yeah, I think I mean we work the same way. Uh I mean the other thing that's important to note is like requirements

around like so there's like the segregation of like you know wallets and what's visible on chain and what isn't right we obviously have clients who don't want their positions to be seen and so they want to make sure that that's that that can be like um you know not so transparent. They want to be omnibus. Yeah. So yeah, there are elements where you want to have like certain things that have like elements of of omnibus, right? So you're not so every type of position isn't, you know,

you know, completely and fully transparent. Um, but I think that that's a bit of a different issue um than when we think about um, you know, an omnibus solution that's like, you know, a mush pot of like different client assets that exists like kind of in perpetuity and not in um, you know, uh, in kind of a holding uh, area in satisfaction of a settlement of a of a trading activity, right? And so um, yeah, I think those are just kind of two different concepts. Okay. Sure, please. I think if we come

back to how we think about our principles-based standards that we've been up here talking about, you know, I don't know that requiring omnibus versus segregated falls into that, right? So, I think, you know, um there may be a standard to disclose and you provide a disclosure of how assets are being held at certain times. Um, and that should be upon either the BD or the the this the custodian the BD selected on how they're going to hold assets on on behalf of customers and that there are pros and cons and risks

should be disclosed to those customers on on how they're handling that. So a topic please let me just ask so what you just said and what have been discussed before were like the risks to the customers and and if we're and we were talking about whether or not you know different entities should be able to do different things or c assets should be custody differently and some choices that that end users might have and that sort of brings up disclosures right if we're so concerned about um

people making their own cho choices and taking control of their, you know, all that ends up end up usually resulting in disclosures. So, I just want to sort of ask how people feel about Well, I guess our disclosures the answer, you know, they may not be, but you know, that's if someone's supposed to be making an informed choice about do I want to put my assets here, do I want them held in this certain way or this certain way, that usually will result in a disclosure requirement. And and how

far can one take disclosure as as the solution? And of course the SEC is primarily a disclosure regulator. But if typ traditionally if you are going to do certain things and you're regulated by the SEC that then triggers more specific requirements that you can't really disclose away. Um should is this asset class different that you can disclose it away or you should tell people here's what we're doing and that's that's what it's going to be and you can go to a different provider if

you want something else. That that's what I'm getting at really. It's more like if we're saying well you know people should have a choice of how of you know what type of custodian they choose or how something is held then what I mean by disclosures is to is give them meaningful information so they can decide for themselves if they like this solution or that solution or the other sol you know what what do they want um because at the end of the day they're taking some risks so I'm not suggesting

disclosures are the way to go I'm just saying that's normally how this would be addressed. And if we're expecting people to make choices for themselves, we have to give them the information with which to make those choices in some manner. I think there can be choices that are equal but different as well. And I think this is partially maybe more in that category. If we have a principles-based regime that uh requires a certain bar, we should then allow all of us in the industry to pick

the approaches to meet that bar. Um and we benefit from actually making different technological choices and making different approach choices. um as we learn to bring down the number of incidents over time uh you know just take an example when all those Windows machines went down not that long ago um it was very obvious that choosing one technology solution can bring down significant portions of pieces and while I hope no technology solution in our space will ever have a bug in it I'm sure they will at some

point and it would be important for us to have multiple different models and approaches and technologies and and and mechanisms and a principlesbased approach versus a rulesbased approach supports that and allows it. Do we have to disclose the choices we've made? For sure. Do we expect the user to understand the differences in the risk between those choices? Maybe for some sophisticated investors, but probably not for most. And uh and I think that's okay as long as we set a principlesbased

bar that we we all aim for. It almost sounds like you're from a distributed systems, you know, industry where having multiple redundancies uh is sort of the solution. Yeah. So, I think I'm totally on board with a principles based approach and I think that we talk about that a lot, right? Like what do we want what do we want a custodian to be able to do? How do we want the custodian to be able to protect the um you know the consumer? Um, and so like but there there are certain principles that you want to have

and you want to be like a little bit more explicit about and then certain principles that you don't right like you know I've heard on the panel things like you know assets are safest at rest well if assets are always going to be safest at rest then we're not going to be able to use crypto the way that we want to in the future right because there's a significant payments case for crypto right and so you want them to be safe all the time Um uh so so we want to be careful of the principles that we're

thinking about and like not prescribing something based on like the technology that exists today, but what it's going to take and the standards that we need to take to like um make sure that we have like a robust and efficient marketplace. So there's it's come up in various points in our discussion today. uh but there are various non- US jurisdictions that have are further along in their crypto journey and uh crypto regulation. Are there we heard some examples of things that are problematic. Um, are

there other examples of uh problematic views and rules that foreign regulators have taken or lessons about more uh productive viewpoints and things that the SEC um should look to and potentially borrow from? Um, Mark, I start with you on that. Sorry to bring you back in or Tammy because you're maybe Tammy, you're a you know non US-based firm. I think you got my answer already on that one around Canada. I think that's the most obvious examp I I mean I'm my answer is going to be somewhat generic but intentional. Um

I think the the lesson I hope the US takes is internationally they've recognized the importance of the space and they've chosen to take an intelligent again I'm being generic an intelligent logical proactive approach at a high level for their jurisdictions and areas and for one of the first times from a financial perspective the US is leading from behind and if we have not recognized that it feels like we are recognizing that now. So I hope what we are taking away is to not do this peace meal, to

not be narrow in our views as we are looking to legislate. And one of the biggest things is a lot of the last few years, the what feel slightly arbitrary rules, amendments to rules, proposed amendments to rules, they were not put there by legislation. Well, that means they can be taken away without legislation. So maybe there's an opportunity to unwind some things in a fairly quick manner and put things place wholesale because that's more or less from an international perspective they've done things on a more wholesale

level than a peacemeal level. Sure. Um I I think our markets are very different, right? it's um yeah we find when we look at international markets that they typically have a single regulator um and so it's a lot easier to for the passage of legislation to pass through that um I think the US markets are robust and you know for the most part a lot of that is to do with uh you know being on the front foot of how they legislate over year and it's been it's all been done via a a very defined way

of determining what an asset is and then for finding out what the deficiency is around that um I don't think there's a whole lot of lessons we can take from international markets on or international regulators as to as it pertains to not even things that they do poorly. Well, you know, it's not my it's not my persona to focus on people that fail. um unlike my esteemed partner over here. So um I uh I I think there are lessons on regulation that that that we can look at, but I don't think it's it's

old enough for us to actually take a look a historical look at it and use it in a meaningful in a meaningful way. I'll chime in. Uh I think what was probably most shameful about uh the last four years was that Bitco received approvals in multiple foreign jurisdictions and we were essentially hamstrung in you know our hometown the home court right uh and it was really shameful and sad and hopefully uh that's about to change. And what did those foreign regulators do well that then you could think the

hometown regulators could learn from? granted approvals. I mean really no no what what what we're looking for right is guidance and I I think that's that's really what you know if you want if you want innovation and markets to move forward in a meaningful way you can't styy that innovation and when you've when you've got personas that are regulated or regulatory adjacent uh they look for that guidance uh from regulators and I think if you're going to look to foreign um regulation as as

some kind of guiding light that's probably the biggest takeaway is that there there was clarification pretty early on that allowed those markets to evolve. Plus one exactly what I meant. Yeah, I want to um pick up on what Baylor said. Um you know and it's important because you know you know I've had a lot of conversations around like um you know we we don't have a p we don't have a pathway to get certain licenses and so let's like think about some kind of lesser standard um when we

think about like qualified custody, right? So qualified custody is like up here. It is something that is like you know black and white and there are requirements around it. Um and so now what we're seeing is a more open posture right and a more like from both the markets regulators and the credential regulators. And so kind of like using a straw man argument to be like okay well now we don't have to do xyz because there isn't a pathway. That's not really an argument today right like we there's a plethora

of choice that's out there. Um and like then if you are able to apply you know these principles based approach approaches about like what we want that to do and um you know meeting you know standards of regulation um there's no reason why you can't have like a whole host of qualified custodians for the market to choose from that meet certain um criteria. So I've got another curveball question that uh I'm not sure who I'm going to ask but we'll see. Um this gets a little bit more deeper to

the technology where assets can be custodied in some way within smart contracts. So it's not a particular institution holding it but the smart contract holds it. There have been ideas discussed around that being a way to custody assets uh that it's put into a smart contract and it can only come out if you know if XYZ happens. Um, obviously that's the way, you know, a lot of DeFi works where assets go into custody. They only come out if something else happens first. Is that a solution

to say no, the brokers, the banks, they aren't holding custody. Um, it's all arranged within a smart contract so that you know the the banks may have the way to get in or the brokers have the way to get in or those smart contracts are the brokers are smart contracts that can do that sort of thing um a solution or do they sort of bring you back to the same place where somebody's the one controlling or potentially controlling the smart contract? Brandon, I'll start with you. You're lucky, Mark.

Um yeah, I I yeah you know we're uh as an organization we're pretty um we we pretty conservative in terms of how we see this. The idea that we um play off the front foot from an innovation point of view is not really where we're at. Uh we we face off to the market in a very jaded type way. We like who can we trust, who can we not trust. Um smart contracts kind of fall into that same thought process. So consequently, you know, I think if you look at the buy bit, there was a smart contract involved in that hack as well.

Um, it wasn't the smart contract where the failure was in I didn't comment on this earlier, but we believe this the failure in that was actually a governance issue. Um, and so when you don't have proper, you know, policies, procedures, and uh, you fail to follow them and there's no one to actually enforce them, that's when these things fail. So should this evolve into smart contracts? I think yeah ultimately if there's a case for us to happen where uh the markets or custody is more efficient

as a construct of that then I'm all for it but um it's got to be done within a framework where there is oversight and somebody can actually point to it and say there's something wrong over here when it fails. can't socially engineer a smart contract, right? So, doesn't that help with that budget situation, for example? Yeah. Yeah. I I find that my my life experience is that when things go wrong, people like to point at an actual person, not at some kind of piece of technology.

Please. So, when I think of smart contract custody, I in my head um liken it very much to normal centralized custody, right? these smart contracts that are out there are developed by someone. There are roles associated with the smart contract that are uh managed by addresses which are then managed by private keys. And so if you deploy a smart contract to act as custody, there may be functions that are part of that that you can call who can upgrade, who can change the contract to to uh make it do something different

that is controlled by a role, an address that is controlled by a key ultimately at the end of the day. So, who's in custody of that key that that can actually make changes to the smart contract or edit the smart contract? That to me is custody. Um, then there are other keys, right? And I think there was a conversation earlier, let's not worry about keys and and I agree with that, right? But you know it starts to get very technical very quick which then there are these functional roles um that

may call that smart contract that may say to move the asset out of that smart contract that is also controlled by a role which is controlled by a key at the end of the day and you need to sign that transaction with that key in order to call that function. Um and you know then therefore like that is not something that I would consider custody. And so if that's the broker dealer facilitating that I wouldn't consider that custody. But whoever is controlling the smart contract at the end of the day, uh, down

to Bren's point, is the custodian of that asset in my head. Yeah. Yes. I mean, yes, that's exactly it. There's a key somewhere at the end of the day controlling that and whoever has that is the custodian. Okay. Or is custody. So there there can't be something that is relatively autonomous uh that is programmed. The key, if there was one, is thrown away and it just works in a particular way. There's got to be somebody you you're saying that is controlling that and they would be

effectively the custodian. Yeah. Well, if it's on beh Yeah. And if it's if you're doing that if that's happening on behalf of a customer, then that there you know there needs to be a qualified custodian. Yeah. I I guess in theory it could work that way, right? You throw away the key. I I would argue that that is a bad business practice because maybe there is an exploit or some malware and someone needs to go and update that contract. um you know because there was a vulnerability in it and they should

you know have have the ability to go and do that right and so to me it is um smart contract custody while very interesting and I certainly think part of the future as you start thinking about you know what does it mean for a user to hold some of these assets themselves participate in these networks on their own um but also have that oversight from a broker dealer maybe where they want to see all of their assets sit or have all of their assets sit um it becomes a very interesting way uh to be able to use the technology that

is there with us and also you know working through a broker dealer to do that. Would you say the same thing um if a contract was not editable once once it's been deployed it's not editable it could be cancelled but not edited would you say who would you I mean I'd like to know who you think would be the appropriate person in control or custody of that of that whoever deployed it or but they can't edit it. It just goes back to my point of yeah if it's non-editable then no one is controlling

it. Um I just don't know it's a good business practice to have non-editable out there. At the end of the day there are technology controls which may or may not include smart contracts or HSM or key management in other ways multisig and then their operational controls. Um I think a common theme on this panel is we should not mandate which specific technology or operational controls uh explicitly are put in place and that the industry will continue to change over time and the best practice on those

things that applies today will be different in six months or a year or five years. So I I think can smart contracts be part of the answer probably. Uh for some in some ways will they be the answer for everybody? right now. Are they the only answer? I would argue for sure not. So, we won't have the SEC mandating smart contracts then. Um, so I think we're at three o'clock, uh, which means, uh, this first panel, uh, needs to wrap up now. Thank you all so much for your really, really valuable

insights. Um, and I think we are going to take 30 minutes and come back for the second panel at 3:30. All right. Thank you, Zach. And just a big hand for our panelists who all did a great job. [Applause] So at at the beginning of our discussion, one of our panelists said that assets are at rest are most safe and I don't have much experience personally custodying crypto. So I won't opine on that here. But one thing I do have experience custodying is ice cream. And in the case of ice cream, the idea

that assets at rest are most safe is very true. First, I have to take possession of the ice cream from a giant warehouse and bring it here. Then I've had to put it in cold storage, specifically a freezer. And finally, it had to be moved to the lobby out here for you to enjoy. So, we're going to take a quick break. We'll reconvene at 3:30. And just before you go, please take a look around you and introduce yourself to someone you haven't met yet. One of the purposes of these roundts is

to help you connect with other folks that are thinking about these ideas. So, please do that now and then go enjoy an ice cream with your new friend. Thank you.

We're back. Thanks everyone uh who hung in there for the first panel and are joining us now, rejoining us now or those that are joining us now uh for the first time. As you heard the first panel, we discussed uh custody of broker dealers and the issues under the customer protection rule. The second panel is going to focus uh on similar issues but from a different perspective. C custody arrangements for investment advisors and investment companies. Unlike broker dealers, which traditionally do act as custodians

themselves, investment advisors and investment companies are different in that they typically aren't custodians, but instead are required to use third parties to custody clients and funds uh assets. While they're separate regulatory issues, in many ways they boil down to similar questions. As you heard in the first panel, broker dealers holding customer securities through third parties do so typically through banks and broker dealers. And what do you know? Investment adviserss and investment funds similarly have to hold

uh their customers or their clients securities with qualified custodians that are banks or broker dealers. And unlike broker dealers that have the option of maintaining physical possession themselves, that's not really been a option for advisers and funds. Some of the policy goals may differ uh for investment advisers and investment companies than they do for broker dealers. So the regulatory solutions aren't necessarily the same. Another difference is that the SEC at least under the prior administration proposed

to amend the rules for advisers to set forth how they uh custody or safeguard as it will rule propose it uh customer assets including specifically digital assets. I might go on be going out on a limb here to say that the current SEC leadership may not move that proposal forward. Uh and there was a lot of commenters that commentators that had concerns about about that proposal. Uh so hopefully this discussion can help inform the anything the SEC does in this space. So without further ado, again I'm

not going to introduce but please say your name and your affiliation uh if you uh start speaking uh but I'm excited to get the views of this panel with extensive experience on these issues. So just to start set the stage uh for the issues we're trying to solve. What are the policy goals? What are the risks when investment advisors and investment companies uh are holding assets for their customers and funds that these rules are trying to address and and how should do they or should they differ for

digital assets? Uh maybe Susan, I can start with you. Sure. I'm Susan G Brown. I'm a partner at ANOS Sherman. Um, so I think the the policy goals are to protect assets from destruction, loss, and theft. Um, and I think that's the policy goal no matter what the asset is, whether it's a digital asset or or a traditional asset. So in that respect, I feel like the policy goals are the same. But you know, one of the challenges that we have right now is that we have fairly prescriptive custody rules in both the

advisors act and the investment company act. And it's the perspect perspect pres sorry it's the um specificity of those rules that you know I think are causing the most angst because we just have a different system now with the digital asset ecosystem and it doesn't fit squarely within the rules that were written for a completely different system. Larry, can I ask you to add on to that? Sure. So I I think to level set a little bit here, I'm Larry Florio. I'm general counsel of 1KX. 1KX is a cryptofocused

fund manager. I think one thing that's important to level set on here is how crypto systems are fundamentally different from traditional finance. In crypto, we've created a technological infrastructure where you don't need intermediaries and you don't need counterparties. There's unique abilities that come with that and there's unique risks too. So I think fundamentally I agree with Susan that on the goal of the custody rule. I think that to meet an an adviser to meet their fiduciary duty,

they have to ensure that their assets aren't being destroyed, lost or stolen. But also we should evaluate how to mitigate the risks that are present in the system in which we are operating and investing and to control for those risks and not unnecessarily add new risks to that system. So with with crypto, these are often productive assets. So I agree a little bit with what earlier panel said that an asset at rest is often safest but crypto is not always necessarily intended to be at rest. We have technological solutions

like multi-party computation, multi-IG wallets that allow us to be active on chain with these assets in a way that I think does mitigate quite a lot those risks that the custody rule is trying to control for. uh Adam to that. So the the problem that we have is that we're trying to fit a technology designed to be a peer-to-peer payment system into a system for centralized trading and it's not a good match. Right? This is why we have these frictions. Um the basic idea of a custodian traditionally was this is

someone who's going to physically hold your assets. They're going to have a vault or something, right? And we're going to make sure that the door is, you know, a sufficient number of inches thick and that it's fireproof for 24 hours, not just for 12 or the like. And that's a really different set of skills than are required to secure crypto. And I though I think the idea of a custodian has a lot of merit to it. You uh and there there are some especially when we're an investment advisor

investment company we we don't we probably want to be a little more careful with the with self-custody in that context. But when you're or really at that point the investment advisor would be the custodian if they're self-custodying because they're doing it for someone else. the the skill set that's needed is different than what traditional custodians have and I think that we should be having a regulatory framework that acknowledges that. Now that doesn't mean that traditional custo

that we shouldn't have any rules about who can be a custodian but we should be recognizing that your traditional financial institutions may not be the right ones to be doing cryp crypto custody. Actually, may I add one one last? There is one one other difficulty particularly in the investment advisor um context which is the trigger for custody requirements is that it be a security or funds and the term funds is undefined in this context. We have actually a district court decision in the electronic funds transfers act

context saying cryp you know that um bitcoin is funds but doesn't bind us here. um the we don't I don't think we want investment advisors to be in the position of having to figure out if an asset is a security and therefore whether the this rule is triggered. So that that does seem kind of important to have some clarity on that on that legal point. I would just say, you know, picking up on that, I I tend to think that having to I agree that having an advisor having to decide on an asset byasset basis

whether a certain asset is within a regulatory scheme or not is very thorny and time consuming and potentially expensive. So it seems to me that it would be easier and perhaps better to have the regulations follow the entity. So if an adviser custody or you know has control over assets and is providing investment advice to a client regarding those assets then you would have the same safekeeping requirements without regard to what those assets are. Um you know similar to the investment company act which covers just the assets of the

investment company. So I think that will come up again when we talk about the safeguarding rule a bit. Um but for present purposes, Adam, you started talking about self-custody. Traditionally, there's been limited um ability of advisers to self-custody. Self- custody is a weird concept here because it's really custodying for their for their the funds or their uh clients. Should there be more ability to self- custody for digital assets because they are different um because the kinds of custodians that are traditionally used

for traditional financial assets may not make sense in the same way. Um there's technology that the adviserss could use. I guess what uh what should the SEC do there? Should they expand that to allow it in this context? I see Chuck, it looks like you've got uh some things to say on that. Yeah. Uh, Chuck Mooney, University of Pennsylvania Kerry Law School and New Hampshire Commissioner on Uniform State Laws. I think that's a an important question and we really need to drill down on what is custody and what is self

custody. And uh it's ironic that in the investment management world, the only self-custody contemplated is custody by someone who's holding for someone else. That's the investment advisor. So it really turns things uh upside down conceptually. Uh but in thinking about it, we can analogize it to direct holding of a security as a registered owner. But here often no issuers. And I think we could maybe look at the definition of uh control and the new article 12 which I hope the SEC will

encourage the adoption of because it provides the take-free rule for good faith purchasers as well as perfection by control rather than having to file a financing statement to perfect a security interest. But that would be one approach. Uh and it might have to be relaxed somewhat. Another might be to say, well, what is it that a bank custodian does when it has these crypto in an ETF F, you know, and sort of work backwards from best practices there. But I think we ought to get to the same place that it's

a functional equivalent of possession of a tangible which may or may not be accompanied by a by a property interest. And I would certainly encourage self-custody. Uh and I and I would like to see, you know, we'll talk more about that, but I would like to see developments of platforms that would make it, you know, more feasible and userfriendly and safe. Neil, maybe I can just uh follow on that for a second. Uh and thank you Chuck for for those remarks. So Neil Matra, a partner at Decert in in Washington DC.

Um you know, I think Zach, what I would say is there's probably a really good case for self-custody now in the sense at this at this moment in time. Maybe that's going to going to be different you know as crypto matures in five years time or something like that. But you know when the in in in the the proposal for the safeguarding release the commission noted that you know the entire cryptocustodial landscape in the US amounted to one OC regulated bank uh four OC regulated trusts approximately

20 state chartered trust companies and other banking entities and at least one FCM futures commission merchant. So so that's not a large number. Those numbers I think have changed a little but they haven't changed vastly. That's that's one thing I would I would say. And then we've had I think 8 years without any significant guidance around the norms around crypto custody for for advisers I think. So given those two factors, I think that there's there's probably a a good case for saying that at least right

now there is a good case for self-custody coming out of that coming out of that uh relative posity of of sort of guidance and that relative posity of providers and when it comes to the providers I mean we also don't know what the range of assets is that they that they serve what is the range of functions that they serve for for the assets that they serve. So this is a a a landscape of uncertainty and in that landscape of uncertainty I think self- custody makes sense. I'll say one other thing before I I I stop I stop rambling

but but I think you know in the in the self- custody context I think sometimes of a a speech that uh that that commissioner pur gave uh in response to an observation by then chair gensler comparing crypto to the wild west. She said, well, you know, in the in the so-called wild west, people actually had worked out rules. There was sort of private ordering and there was private contracting and and and this is true to some extent of self-custody as well. Many of the the better RAAS, I would think, have sort of worked out rules.

Now, I'm not saying that uh examiners would necessarily agree with with all of them, and there are former examiners on this panel, but um I'm not saying that those are always necessarily perfect, but I think in this environment and at this time, there is a case for a margin of appreciation for RAS who are making good faith efforts to sort of put these rules into practice. So, at this time and in this environment, I think self-custody, I think, is a good option. And I I think in some cases the adviser

and the personnel of the adviser are in a better case and are better situated to custody because they know the asset and they know the technology. Um, I found that with many of my clients that they understand the technology better and the assets are safer with the with the adviser um because they just really understand the technology and and these are advisers, some of them that have come over from the technology side and started advisory firms or some that have teamed up with technologists and they

just truly understand the technology better. So having an option of self-custody um I think would benefit clients, would benefit investors and um would protect those assets. Justin, please. Yeah. Um Justin Browder at Simpson Thatcher. Um I think one of the biggest issues that we face in this with respect to qualified co custodians is that in in some cases, not all, um the requirement forces advisers to choose between complying with technical prescripts of the of the AD of the custody rule and then complying with the

fiduciary duty of care. And between those two obligations, if you look back at the commission interpretation from 2019, that obligation always wins out. It's the duty to invest assets according to your client's objectives and to only invest in suitable uh investments. Um right now the the qualified custodian architecture does in some cases does not allow for that. So, you know, a couple of examples. Um some some assets just aren't capable of being reduced to qualified custody. You know, we've we've

dealt with clients where a fund has invested in a project and stands ready to receive crypto assets um that are that have been minted on a new blockchain and there's no one they look around and they they pull all the QC's that Neil mentioned and there's no one that's actually available to take uh take hold of those assets. Um another example is um and I'm sure we'll talk about this later but but trading on crypto exchanges. There are a lot of exchange infrastructures that are not

set up through a qualified custodian architecture and these markets are volatile. I think we can all agree the markets move very quickly and and advisers in order to fulfill their fiduciary duty of care really do need ready and quick access to access um to to the markets to trade those assets to take advantage of of potential opportunities. But I would argue even more important to mitigate against downside uh market risk. And so when the assets are sitting in the qualified custodian framework in cold cold

storage, you know, it's it can take 6 12 I've heard days to move assets out onto an exchange platform which is not a qualified custodian. So you're really forcing advisers to figure out do do I do I find a qualified custodian or do I maximize gains for my client in the way that they've contractually mandated that I do? So go ahead, Ryan. Yeah, I was just going to mention one more thing. So Ryan Lo, our wisdom tree, um, we issue, uh, exchange traded products that invest in digital assets. Um, we also issue

digital assets and tokenized real world assets that have a registered investment advisor as well. Um I do think it boils down to I think it the core the advisor's act focuses on the who in terms of a needing a qualified custodian a bank uh broker dealer as opposed to I think this framework really needs to focus on which I think a lot of us are saying is the how you know what is the access control what are the security measures that the how is implemented and who is doing that I think is somewhat

less important so if the visor can do that via self-custody how is to doing it. Can it ultimately meet those policy goals that Susan started off with in terms of securing assets in terms of ensuring that, you know, those aren't compromised, they can't be, you know, stolen or or there's no theft. I think it becomes, you know, less focused on self-custody versus entity and sort of how what are those controls? And there already is a model for self-custody in the custody rule. Albeit that if an adviser self custodies, it

has to be a qualified custodian or if it's a related person. But I think the commission could look to some of the the structures and um um safeguards that are there. Uh the internal control report, surprise exam, add another surprise exam, give investors disclosure given the disclosure based regime. And I think that would go a long way to uh to satisfying some of the concerns. But there is this structure there that I think the commission could look to that has existed and is the gold standard as

um someone in an earlier panel mentioned. And just to follow on on that and and Ryan's point, the how are there views in terms of you know regulators are going to regulate? Um it sounds like there's a lot of agreement that advisers should be able to self- custody, but how like under what conditions, under what standards? What are the safeguards to make sure that even if they are self-custodying is it those surprise exams um is is there more are there features of this technology that make it

you know more adapt or more amendable to self custody um I don't know uh Chuck can I start with you if you've got views on on the how well this is far beyond my expertise but I can point you to the papers on Neil's bio and on Susan's bio where explore how uh an adviser in self-custody uh could nonetheless provide there could be provided I would say the same kinds of protections that we contemplate would be provided by a qualified custodian and I think that's uh as Neil suggests the the future is to

find ways that a person can be in direct contact with their own assets but nevertheless without putting a custodian in the chain of title, we can have those same protections that are contemplated by the investment management uh ecosystem. And I'd say too, I mean, one of the reasons at Wisdom Tree we've gravitated toward blockchain is really the transparency that it provides. um which I think have some potential unique benefits here in terms of you know being able to track you know the assets that

are in a particular wallet can be independently verified actually by third parties without you know going into necessarily the advisor's office you know so so long as it understands those wallet addresses um so there's a level of transparency also immutability with those blockchains that really doesn't historically exist in the traditional financial landscape that uh I think that technology, you know, potentially lends itself to sort of rethinking how these assets are viewed in the custody

context. So that coming on to that point about um it being visible on the blockchain, this came up a bit on the on the prior panel. Is is that a solution um that well advisor can tell its clients or tell regulators or tell its auditors here's the wallet address and they can go and look and see that they're there at all times. Um Susan, is that sort of eliminate the need for a qualified custodian because you know you can have the auditors and regulators just watching the wallet and getting alerts

if things disappear. I think it it depends. Um and that's why I think ultimately we need a principlesbased solution because different adviserss are going to have different business models and different levels of knowledge about how to deal with digital assets. So for some adviserss it will be completely uh reasonable for them to self-custody and to say we have a comprehensive recordkeeping system that's implicit in the blockchain. uh other adviserss it's not going to be as clear. And so it might be that for

some assets and for some adviserss you want to have a qualified custodian. And then we have to think about what do we mean by a qualified custodian because again you know just because a bank is a bank doesn't mean that that bank has expertise in custodying digital assets. So I think we have to think like what is it about these entities that makes them qualified custodians. So there might be things like is the entity regulated by a regulator? You know, is uh does the entity have to maintain policies and

procedures and controls? Um does it have a capital requirement? Does is there a resolution um authority? And is there an audit that's required by a third party, not necessarily an accountant, but maybe somebody who's an an expert in auditing blockchain technology and then at the end of the day, you have the blockchain itself, which is itself a recordkeeping system and it's immutable and you can trace it if you know what you're doing. But so I think there's a lot of things to think about that are in the mix. And

it might be that for some advisers, you know, a one-person adviser who's just entering the space may not feel that they can, you know, look at the blockchain and be able to analyze are the assets where they're supposed to be. And for them, a qualified custodian might be the answer. Um, but for a much more uh an adviser that's established an in-house capability, self-custody might be reasonable as well. Justin, um, do you have a view on the extent to which that kind of transparency level could solve this

question? So, um, if you kind of trace back the history of the of the Advisors Act rule, um, back to 1962, I you kind of can pick up three themes, right? So there's there's the requirement to to safekeep assets securely. There's a requirement to disclose to your clients where those assets are. And then there's always an independent verification um uh aspect to the rule. I think the publication of of an address um helps uh satisfy two of the three, but I I agree with Susan that there's likely a

requirement to impose some sort of pr principles-based standard around making sure that the assets are actually kept safe, whether that's through a qualified custodian or on a self-custody basis. And you can couple you can kind of frame that requirement around a bunch of different principles because I think that whatever rule um gets adopted or amended in this case needs to be technology neutral. We've talked a lot about that today. Um that you know what's current today will be obsolete in

a week in this space. Um but you could you could you could think about imposing some general standards around um policies and procedures um recordkeeping things. You know the commission could look in its current tool toolbox under the advisor's act to pull out certain control frameworks to to to ensure safekeeping as a sort of to hit that third of the three um policy objectives that I've that I that I mentioned. Ju just picking up on something you said about technology neutral. I I agree with

you, but I also think that it's important to not miss that there is this technology that can address the concerns that the commission had in 1962 or whenever they originally passed it and has continued to be a concern um that the there's transparency um and that the assets can be verified and and looked at by the client if the address is given. Um, so I think technology neutral but also keeping in mind when they're thinking about a principalbased approach or a relief to consider that the

technology does what existing custody rule is meant to do. So I I kind of want to give a plus one uh to Justin but with a little little different twist. the checking the whether assets are on chain that that's a great way of making sure that the assets are there now but it doesn't tell you anything about whether they're secure in an hour or in a day right so it you need you know I think you want the transparency of being able to check on chain which then means not doing not having custody through omnibus wallets

and then having in addition some set of regulations that and that are going to that are going to ensure that the that those assets will remain secure. So, you know, auditing, making sure that there's certain procedures for keeping track of books and records, for secure, for securing private keys, so forth. So, I've heard some some suggest that third party custody through a qualifies may be less secure than self custody on the basis that that means somebody else is holding the private keys. um you don't know what's going to

happen with that. Is that a legitimate concern? And if so, should the SEC go in the opposite direction and actually mandate self- custody rather than say that you need to that advisers and funds need to use qualified custodians? Uh Ryan, I saw uh I saw you lighting up first. I was going to pop in. Well, I think I think it goes back to that point around um you know, the experience which we heard a little bit on the last panel. You know, I think that, you know, with the traditional safekeeping system, you

could say, okay, a bank uh can really perform this function. I think though that the technology and understanding, you know, the operational procedural safeguards that are really necessary to, you know, ensure that the crypto asset is safe or the tokenized asset is safe is different. And so I think that requires, you know, a level of experience that a traditional custodian, you know, may not have. now, but I wouldn't swing it over to say, okay, that that that's complicated. Um, but there are certainly parties, ourselves

included, that can do that well. Um, but I wouldn't then switch it to self-custody. I'd say I think choice is important, but going back to those uh, you know, core safeguards and the principles of custody um, to to give choice and and to me part of that in the digital asset experience is choice. Um I mean that's why I think a lot of investors have gravitated generally toward digital assets is because they have a choice in how they want to hold them for instance or who they can use and I think that sort of permeating

through generally um you know this this regulated infrastructure is incredibly important um though does need to respect that that choice and that there are differences here. Chuck please. Yeah, I would agree with that completely even though I have a, you know, sort of a bias towards self- custody and at least exploring that. What I would suggest, however, the SEC might do is mandate that if a custodian where used is going to maintain a securities account type arrangement with an with its investors,

that it have to opt into UCCC article 8, which wouldn't automatically apply as it does for banks and broker dealers for securities, but you have to opt in when it's not an article 8 uh uh security and I would strongly uh encourage that. So maybe Zach I can add one thing to that. I mean I think completely in agreement with everything I've heard so far and and especially the fact that this doesn't yield yield to sort of uh this doesn't yield absolute rules. There are going to be cases where self-custody

makes sense. There are going to be cases where a third party custodian makes sense and and and and that differs obviously from asset to asset. But I think it also differs from firm to firm and and I think one thing of course which which Ryan has sort of picked up on others have also mentioned is the sophistication of the firm. The other thing that that is that is also relevant I think is the firm's business model or rather where where it sits on the spectrum of of uh you know private funds or or in the sense that if if you're if

you're dealing with any kind of fund really not just private funds but but if you're dealing with say a trading shop you know the expectations around the assets and how the assets are going to be used it's going to be vastly different from let's say a traditional venture capital firm where you might be holding the tokens for a period of years in certain cases. So, so again stressing the fact that there aren't absolutes but I think one thing as and I think you know this is going to be a prime area

for examiners as I keep as I keep coming back uh to this point but when they look at it when examiners examine these practices um obviously looking at the nature of the asset is going to be very important but looking at the nature of the firm's business is I think going to be equally important. Just want to pick up on one point that Ryan made on choice. Um just going back to the Advisors Act fiduciary standards, they they are grounded on notice and informed consent. So one of the things that would be worthwhile in exploring

any future amendment or rule is figuring out whether it might be possible to get buyin from from advisory clients about exactly how they expect their assets to be held. that would in my mind be consistent with Advisors Act orthodoxy and and especially for sophisticated clients like a 3C7 fund or otherwise. Um I you know it doesn't strike me as totally unreasonable to offer clients a menu of options around custody and and let those clients choose what they believe is most appropriate for them.

So I I want to kind of go back to first principles with something Susan said about that the real goal here is keeping customer assets safe, right? And what are the kinds of risks that come up in this context? Well, there's a hacking risk. That's just kind of the outside theft risk. There's a we might call defalcation or misappropriation risk. That's the inside theft risk. And unfortunately, we've seen a lot of that at least in uh you know 2022. We had that with FTX, we had that with Celsius,

right? This this is not a an unknown risk even though it seems to be particularly sharp in in in the context of uh companies where there's a you know large personality at the helm. Um but then there's a third risk that we haven't talked about uh because all all the questions about sort of you know who has the technical know-how that's really mainly going to the hacking risk and making sure we have enough that we have good policies and procedures and examinations that's more on the

defalcation risk. The third risk though is an insolveny risk. And it's not obvious to me that the hacking risk or the defalcation risk is any different whether you're talking about ins you know having a self-custody solution or a third party custody solution exists in both. But the the solveny risk might be different because the the solveny risk deals with the uh the other operations of either the investment advisor or the if it's a third party custodian and generically it's hard to say where

there's more problems on the insolveny risk side but I think ideally you want to find the the play you want to have the custody done by the party that has the the least insolveny risk and that part part of this there's some solutions within insolveny risk. The UCCC article 8, as Chuck raised, helps clarify that at least for the crypto that's left around, who has an ownership interest in it, right? It doesn't mean that there's going to actually be any crypto in the in the cupboard when you

look, but uh we article 8 makes clear whose it is if it's there. Um, but if we really want to start addressing the solveny risk, that then starts taking us back to questions like why do we have a qualified custodian requirement that pretty much limits us to um, you know, more or less to banks? And that's because we have a uh, a credential regime for banks that make sure that they usually don't end up insolvent. And if they do, we have a pretty good way of resolving them. So that I I think that's

something that we need to be thinking about is not for the inside versus outside where can we best address insolveny. So is there a bit of a middle ground between self-custody and qualified custodian where an adviser would arrange with a qualified custodian for multi- signature wallets, multi-party compute such that the adviser has the asset themselves but they can't really move the asset without the third party qualified custodian or or other third party um co-signing on the transaction. So, you kind of is that a way to get the

best of both worlds? Um does that solve anything? Uh would that be sufficient? Um Ryan, if you've got views on that? Yeah, I mean uh I I certainly think that um you know that multi-party computation can be a way to to you know solve that uh you know single party risk where you've essentially sharded the key the adviser has access to. I don't think the other two or how many ever many shards need to necessarily be sitting with a qualified custodian but so long as it's a custodial like entity that you know

has these you know first principal safeguards associated with it. So I don't think it needs to necessarily be a bank or a broker dealer which I think we should think about in the rules. Again that goes to sort of the experience within the field of of that entity but I do think that solves some of the control problem. you know, if the advisor is the only one uh that can essentially trigger the movement of the asset, then that does um while while the other portions are sitting somewhere else and again you

know that advisor would need also operational safeguards to ensure you know who is pushing the button if you will. Um but I do think that's one way to potentially solve it. Yes. And solves the point raised earlier about taking a day or two or three to get things out of self- custody. Yeah. No, most definitely. I mean I mean that is the goal of I think blockchain bas based assets is trying to move to essentially uh you know not only atomic settlement but at least uh near instance settlement you know we're I think of the securities

world where we just moved to T+1 which is fantastic you know we have that in the ETFs and it's really really incredible but you know we are able to issue assets that are you know tokenized real world assets that can you know nonsecurities that settle literally immed immediately and so you know I think that's the world we want to get to also on the security side and I think it's achievable through aspects like multi-party computation to to add on to that too I I would worry if a custodian was a signer on a on a

wallet that suddenly it adds custodial discretion as a risk point for the adviser what if the the custodian signature is required to do a transaction and they have their own internal policies that make them ask like okay where are you moving it to oh you're going to use it you're going to use it onchain in DeFi okay how many is it open source how is that how is that protocol set up I think that from a liability perspective that would make sense for a custodian to have policies and procedures like that in place but

now we're back to not only these delays and moving assets in a 247 market but the adviser losing complete investment discretion over what they're doing and now part of choosing custodian comes into like oh how how den is this custodian you know, are they going to let me go and like lend this on on the DeFi protocol? Are they going to let me bridge it to another chain? And this is just it now changes the conversation and I think even weakens the current the current policy goals that we have under

the existing custody rule. Well, I think that's a good point too. I think, you know, I don't know if we've talked about even the overarching fiduciary duty of the advisor is to, you know, ensure that they're meeting the client objective and the client objective may be I want to earn that yield. We haven't gotten much into staking or other aspects but you know to your point I mean if the you know that architecture is impeding that overall advisor fiduciary duty you know that's one other aspect that I really

think there's tension here in terms of you know that duty versus the custodial safeguards and sort of meeting in the middle on ensuring that that both are met both very important but that you know that advisor is able to retain that control to ensure that the client objectives are met. So rare note of disagreement, uh, Zach, but but I I think, you know, I certainly think it's a good thing. I mean, MPC sharding, whatever control splitting mechanism you have, I think is a is a good thing and

and perhaps better to have than than not if if but that said, I mean, my experience with custodians and and perhaps the experience of many with custodians is that they're pretty inert and they don't like to be asked to decide anything really. And and the indemnities in those agreements kind of typically reflect that. uh we're not responsible for basically anything. Uh and and so sounds like a trustee to me. Yeah. Well, oh gosh, don't get me started on those guys. Words out of my

mouth. But but but so given that I mean I I think you know again good to have but but let's be realistic about how far this will get us in terms of true defalcation that involves you know bad intent, elaborate plans, schemes and other things. So, well, yeah, going to to Larry's point, if if they hold a shard, what do they what do you need to give them to get them to actually sign with that shard? And does that sort of undermine the whole point? If it's too easy, then what good are they? If it's

too hard, then you don't want to use them. Yeah, I plus one on on what Neil said. Um I I think custodians generally speaking don't want to be responsible for any decision-making. They want to be told what to do and then and then do it. Um, I think the other issue with having I mean I I'm not anti-custodian. I actually just think that it depends again on the adviser and it depends on um the systems. But to the extent you do share either a key or a shard or or any a any aspect of control

with another third party, you're adding an element of risk with respect to these keys. So, it's it's as though, you know, I make a copy of my house key and I give it to five people and that's going to ensure that I don't get locked out of my house, but now five people can potentially walk into my house. And so, I think it's it's the same when you start adding on service providers to an advisor and you're asking them to hold part of an asset. Please, could I could I just return briefly to

to Adam's point on on the credit risk and insolveny risk, which I think is is real. I essentially it's been reduced to near zero for legacy securities for a variety of reasons including SEC regulations 15C33, SIPA and the like. Uh and I'm unaware of any failed bank where there was a shortfall of securities. Uh even though they have something not like a fancy customer protection rule, they have a rule along the lines of, you know, keep your customers stuff. Uh but maybe that's a little more elaborate

than the rule. Uh on the other hand, if we've got uh intermediaries with financial assets who are not banks or broker dealers, then we could have a wide variety of the sort of supervisory and credential uh uh requirements that are that are there and the risk is uh is real and that's something that article 8 sort of directs the investor that one of the most important decisions they make is choosing the intermediary with whom they want to deal. So I stay with you for a moment, Chuck. We've heard a lot of references to

article 8. Um what legal structure for beneficial ownership should be applied to digital assets? Is it different than traditional assets? Um how does article 8 potentially solve that? Should the article 8 be mandated by the SEC to be what's used by custodians if they're going to be qualified custodians for uh for these kinds of assets? Well, I would reiterate the latter point. My answer would be yes because the alternative is common law and contract and maybe analogies to bailment and and at least

with article 8 you know that uh the assets uh uh the entitlement holder has a property interest and that they're not subject to the claims of the intermediaries uh creditors. uh but it doesn't solve the solveny risk. And when we were drafting that pro those provisions, the unanimous view ended up being that anything that in the account agreement between the customer and the intermediary, they agree can be a financial asset can be and that can be the Mona Lisa or a ham sandwich. uh as uh unwise as that might be for an

intermediary to undertake uh the custody, but that leaves the lack of regulation uh uh where article 8 would still apply. And so this is something that the uh we need to think about. Zach, just just building on that a little on the on the earlier panel on on broker dealers, you you you kind of mentioned the fact that oftentimes that the commission's sort of analysis on good control location, you know, goes to this is a bank and sort of stops there and and that's fair to some extent because banks are heavily heavily

regulated. Uh, you know, there's pretty clear structure in place and all of that. And so it's legitimate for the commission to sort of draw the line there. But but but on these assets I mean I think legal structure becomes more murky because I don't think you can just sort of draw the line at bank and broker dealer in every instance. Cypic protection for example separ protection for example I mean many tokens even if they are securities unregistered investment contracts wouldn't wouldn't

come within CPA's definition. So then there is the question of well it's a broker dealer but does that really get you anything in terms of the specific tokens or specific assets that you're that you're custodying. But I think you know I would say legal structure in that in that sense is a is is it shouldn't be either a necessary or a sufficient condition. It's a good to have but I don't think you can sort of just draw the line there. So changing topics up a bit. Um while

they weren't registered adviserss or funds, uh firms like FTX and Celsius and Voyager uh failed which rais has raised a lot of questions and those that are advocating to separate functions um to separate out the exchange function from the custody function and the clearing function on the basis that having those separations sort of makes things safer. it's easier to find uh to spot when there's improper conduct going on. If that is that necessary and if so, is self-custody even really an option or

does that just bring you back to the same kind of risk that you have in in those firms? I know Adam, if you want to start with that. Sure. um with your FTXs or Celsiuses or Voyagers, the part the part of the problem that arose in those cases was that they were engaged in a variety of different and really distinct activities that you thought if you had your your tokens on FTX, you thought they were sitting there safe just like you would have money in a bank account or something and the or really in a dep in a safe deposit box at

in a bank rather than the account. And the problem was that FTX was deploying them and you know uh deploying them not so wisely as it turned out. And if you want to make sure that the that the that your tokens are really going to be safe, you want them in the equivalent of that safe deposit box, which is, you know, actually it's a multi key signature solution. um uh or or or bank vault where they're not it's not exposed to you want to keep them unexposed to other activities and those

there's operational risk that goes on with with an exchange. The exchange is trading for its own account. It can it can just run there's a range of problems it can run into. You don't want any of that to gum up your the the safety of the of your own holdings. And there are a lot of good trading reasons why, you know, if keeping everything in an omnibus wallet on an exchange makes it a lot easier and cheaper to trade. We're going to trade offchain, so we don't we don't pay gas and we're going to be able

to do everything, you know, just we can everything can settle pretty much immediately because it's just, you know, an Excel spreadsheet for their books and records or whatever. Um, but it does come at the expense of safety. And if the go if the goal here is to prioritize safety of customer assets, you really want to try and eliminate the uh the risk of the credit risk that comes from the custodian's other business. So one thing might be just saying, "Hey custodians, you can do one line of

business and one line of business only. This is kind of the extreme. You're just basically a box for holding somebody else's crypto." That's probably the safest. There may be reasons why we wouldn't want to do that. But you might also think about other activity restrictions where maybe you don't want the custodian trade in involved in trading in crypto for its own account. Or maybe you want the custodian to be at least in a separate legal entity from affiliates that engage in other crypto

activities. That gives you that that gets you maybe somewhere down the road to having a bankruptcy remote entity. That's at least a first step. Um and maybe you want to even think about having something like taking from the banking context something like the source of strength doctrine where all in a bank holding company all of the non-bank affiliates are supposed to be a source of strength to support the depository rather so that the depository obligations effectively come ahead of everything. I think that you know we I

think we want to at least start to have a conversation about the regula the regulation in terms of business activities and organization of custodians whether it's in whether it's an internal you know the investment advisor self-custodies but through an affili through a subsidiary or as a standalone third party custodian. Just looking around if anybody else had had thoughts on that. Okay. I I guess a a unique feature moving on a bit of crypto is staking. We've talked about this a bit earlier.

came up, but I wanted to sort of drill down on a bit more. And people argue that on the one hand, a adviser has a fiduciary duty to make sure that it uh it engages in activities to benefit its clients, which would include engaging in staking to earn the yield. On the other hand, if they've got to hold it at a qualified custodian, that raises challenges because they may need to send it to somebody to engage in validation. They may need to delegate it there. it it doesn't sit sort of still in the same

way. Um do people how do people think we we can square that circle and have the best of both of those worlds? Is that possible? Um Justin, start with you. Yeah, I I it goes back to the um to the conflict that we were discussing earlier and and in some ways staking is the best illustration of this conflict because at a very theoretical level I think there's some might argue that there's absolutely no way to stake assets through a custodial framework because when you stake assets you're moving assets on

chain into the staking contract and no one no custodian is actually holding them in theory, right? and and so I I don't think there's any custodial solution that would meet the competing goals of the custody rule and the advisor's act fiduciary principles and and as I said before when you look at the competition between those two goals the the the advisor's act fiduciary duty of care should win out I if you go back and look at the 2019 fiduciary interpretation that essentially distills

down 80 plus years of um precedent based on centuries of precedent from the law of trust and agency. Um you actually can't find any discussion about safeguarding or custody in that release. Um and I think the the reason is is that the safeguarding rule flows from the overarching duty of care which is to invest your client's assets according to their mandate and according to their best interests. And so if you apply that doctrine to staking, the reality is is that assuming the primacy of the duty of

care, advisers ought to be able to stake their clients assets outside of a qualified custodial framework. And frankly, the technology um doesn't, as I said before, the technology really doesn't support any other way. So there has to be a balancing and and for clients that say to their adviserss, please stake my assets, um it's hard to decline to do so without running a foul of section 206 of the advisors act, you know, which is the cornerstone of the statute. Chuck. Well, perhaps a way to

rationalize this which is you know sort of a glaring apparent conflict in this is to try to distinguish between the risks that are inherent in the asset and the assets inherent attributes from those risks that we expect to be protected against by custody. uh if I tell my broker dealer to sell a 100 shares uh and they go in the system, think of staking, the custodian has lost complete control. I'm now expecting that tomorrow I'll get cash in return and that's really the only way I can maximize I can get the asset value

back. Well, if I have staking, you know, it it moves into that contract ipso facto and immediately the investor receives all the benefits and attributes that flow from that. And it seems to me that if there's some risk there, that's just something that goes along with what the uh with what the asset is and is and those are more akin, I think, to issuer risks. You know, that the broker dealer doesn't guarantee solveny or that the bonds are going to be paid. And so you know what's

custody responsibility and what's just an and hacking is an example just an inherent aspect of the assets. They're on the internet after all. Think about that. Yeah. And it seems like what we might be talking about here is essentially, you know, some types of non-exclusive safe harbors from the prescriptive rules of custody to allow for these, you know, potentially common use cases. um where the you know the client is well either directing it or um you know it's clearly disclosed and the client you know wants

to participate or is given the advisor discretionary authority to allow that it's uh you know fully disclose the risks etc. Um, but I think, you know, we could think about maybe some non-exclusive safe harbors to allow that outside of the confines of the custody rule. So, I would analogize this to staking to holding customer cash, right? And you certainly if you're holding customer cash, it's not a ridiculous thing to put it in a bank account that's not the custodian. You know, the c it's

a contract with the bank. when you put money in the bank, it's not your particular dollar bill. It's you just have a contractual claim with the bank. Um it wouldn't be ridiculous for for a custodian to put customer cash in an interestbearing account. So this seems analogous to this, but by the same token, no pun intended, um the a custodian shouldn't just be putting cash, customer cash into any bank, right? It shouldn't be putting cash into an uninsured bank. It shouldn't be putting cash under its

mattress. It should be taking some level of care about what the bank is. And I think that it points to a custodian needing to undertake some level of diligence about the staking. And I don't know what that would be because it seems unrealistic to ask a custodian to go and evaluate the code for a staking contract. That's just beyond the the skills of I think pretty much any what any custodian has. And yet, you know, there is some risk there, right? You if you haven't examined the code, you don't

know exactly what lurks there. And if you don't know ex if the code relies on an oracle, what's the oracle risk? Are they is the oracle really reliable? Um, I don't know where we we would say what the appropriate type of diligence would be, but I think there needs to be some level of care uh in in staking even if you think that staking is consistent with um custodial duties. Neil, so so one so just one note I'll I'll I'll I'll add there is uh you know I basically had

this view uh that Justin uh started with uh that it it's very difficult to reconcile sort of having the asset remain in custody you know with a qualified custodian or otherwise um and and exercise the the range of rights associated with the asset if that requires taking it out of custody. That seems uh irreconcilable. But but one of the things about crypto is that anything I say could be obsolete by Tuesday. And I think this is this is one of those because like point andclick staking I think is is is an example where seems

like technologies are emerging where crazy as it may sound you may be able to stake without at least theoretically taking it out of custody. So that that's a different question to be explored and that is a technological question as well as a more technological question than a legal question. But but maybe what I would draw from that and building on Adam's idea of diligence is there's got to be some understanding of what is truly necessary in order to stake and I think Zach in in in discussions you know

you've alluded to 17F2 and the companies act as as as a as a as a potential sort of framework and I think that that might be the clue here which is you know is it necessary to take it out of custody to stake it if it is you know what's the period uh and then are there other practices that sort of go towards sort of mitigating the risk around that. So that's you know and and there I think you know it's really an interesting question because it opens up many other doors and one which it opens up is the

SEC went after staking as a service for a very long time but it does afford significant you know protections to customers that sort of independent staking doesn't for example you can cash out you you don't have to wait for the bonding period uh you know you you you're sort of protected against slashing and various other things is there a case for sort of saying that advisers should prefer staking as service over independent staking where it's available. I don't know but but I'm

just saying that that I think is the kind of uh kind of kind of um calculus that that that this introduces into the the staking service providers or the liquid token staking providers would love to hear that your view is that it's a fiduciary duty for advisers to use their product instead of others and not say that just to add on there a little bit like I I think this comes down to manager discretion a little bit too. If a manager wants to use a staking service to stake their tokens, they should be

allowed to. If they want to keep it at a custodian because they'll stake it on your behalf, they should be able to. If a manager wants to run their own validators and and do it themselves, they should be they should be allowed to. I think that a lot of what we're talking about today comes down to trust. It's trusting intermediaries. It's trusting counterparties. It's trusting that when a custodian says that they have your assets, that they actually have your assets. even though it's all

sitting in this in this black box. And I want to bring it back to an earlier point that I made which is that crypto is a fundamentally different system architecture where you don't need to have trust as a component in your analysis. You can run this on autonomous systems based on open- source code and not trust. You can simply just verify. You can look at the code. You can see how it works. You can see it onchain and you know where it is. So again, if a manager doesn't want to do that, if they

don't want to take that on themselves, they that's fine. But if they want to, you know, clip those extra points because they're doing it themselves and they have think that they can manage the opsestack to keep their wallet safe, they should be allowed to do that, too. I I would just say I come back to you know pillars of the advisers's act are fiduciary responsibility of the adviser and disclosure to the investors and if you take those two together you're going to come out with you know is it

appropriate would an adviser consider it appropriate to stake for a particular investor under particular circumstances given the system involved and so I think it's very difficult to mand mandate kind of one system or over another or whether you can stake or not. I think it's it comes down to you know to a certain level the adviser has a fiduciary responsibility and also has to disclose what they're doing to their to their investors. So coming back to something we talked was touched on earlier uh including

commissioner UA mentioned it uh in the SEC's proposed safeguarding rule uh there was something of a bomb thrown in there which took the view that crypto assets are likely either funds or securities and therefore subject to the rule. Um I you know it was a a point that Commissioner uh Pur specifically called out as inappropriate to put in a proposing release but uh there it was. Um under that it would mean that the rule applies right now. Uh do people think that that is the correct interpretation of the law and should the

SEC if not withdraw it? Uh and what should advisors be doing today if they are supposed to be subject to this? and for assets like the one you mentioned Justin there is no qualified custodian for um how do people manage that situation? Um I know Ryan if I could start with you. Yeah I mean uh no I don't I don't think um that's grounded in good law that um you know all digital assets should be treated as funds or or securities. I think there um you know certainly many that are outside the

scope of that. Um, but I think goes back to and it's point that Susan just made is that even if the asset doesn't fall under the prescriptive confines of custodial rule, that doesn't mean that the advisor isn't still subject to a sup fiduciary duty to safeguard that asset. And so, you know, I think it goes to, you know, the advisor's fiduciary duty that it that it still needs to safeguard the asset. The challenge though is the way the the rule's written right now and that safeguarding of the asset. Um you

know if it's treated under the without sort of that spectre of that interpretation still hanging out there. I think a lot of adviserss are saying boy um if it's treated as a funer security we better look toward a qualified custodian. um they may actually prefer that or or believe that another entity that isn't technically a qualified custodian actually can do a better job yet they're subject to potentially that that interpretation. So uh so I do think that that one could be um you know clarified certainly um to

allow to to clarify that you know certainly not all digital assets are are funds if they're not otherwise securities. Um, something else we talked a bit about earlier is the fact that crypto trading platforms themselves tend not to be qualified custodians. At the same time, unlike the traditional securities markets where, you know, you might trade and then it doesn't settle till T plus one. Gives you time to tell your custodian to move it. Crypto platforms tend to settle or expect settlement to

be immediate, real time. So, they want preunded. If you want to sell your bitcoin, you need to put your bitcoin on that platform. Uh similar issue in terms of fiduciary duty balance is that that's where the liquidity is on those platforms. So there may be, you know, I've heard an argument there's a best execution obligation to use those platforms even though they are not qualified custodians. Should there be an exception? Um, you know, Neil, you mentioned something earlier, uh, but a

exception that would allow crypto to be held on non-qualified custodians, um, not either neither self custody nor a qualified custodian because it's going to be held on this crypto platform in anticipation of trading uh, on that on that platform. Neil, uh, did you want to elaborate on that and what those conditions should be, if any? No, it's a hard question. I don't actually have a really good answer to this because um because look, I I think the degree of friction that that's sort of introduced

is just very very significant for for exchanges if you if you sort of split it up in any very in a in in any very material kind of way and and and then that really calls into to question sort of operations. So I I feel like there's got to be uh some answer here that basically requires the exchange to adhere to to to sort of custodial requirements in the same way that we might ask third party custodians or self-c self-custodying firms to do because I think the alternative is simply unworkable for them. So, so

that's I think where I probably come down on this question and and and for firms that are uh by which I mean raas that are that are sort of um using these exchanges and I think centralized exchanges is a harder case than decentralized exchanges to some extent. Um but but for firms that are using these exchanges, you know, it's it's notable that the safeguarding rule actually took the view that you couldn't do it like you you couldn't you just couldn't put your stuff on a centralized

exchange at all. So, so that's sort of the view that Justin alluded to earlier, which is, you know, um custody and care over everything else, uh or custody and security over everything else. But I'm not sure that that's necessarily the best the best way to look at the three elements that that typically make up the advisor's fiduciary duties because best execution is one of them. You can't s just sort of look past it all together. So, so my preferred alternative would be sort of imposing custodial limitations

and custodial requirements on the exchanges at some level and frankly I think the better exchanges do it already. So, so, so, so that to me is is the answer rather than sort of saying you can't do it or or that you need to split it up. So, essentially expanding who can be a qualified custodian for this asset class to include under certain conditions. Well, that or yes and in the sense that either that or saying that self-custody by exchanges is permitted in some in some respect. So, so it'll be somewhere between those two.

Got it. Um Mike, do you have any uh any thoughts on this one? I don't. Okay. Uh Susan um you know one thing we talked about is that there is a exception for investment companies um that allow them to self-custody uh or or an exception from holding their their assets with a bank or broker for things like securities in transit or other transactions where necessary or appropriate. Is that sort of a good model that this is an example where it's just necessary or appropriate? There's no other way to do it. There's no way to

hold it at a at a bank because that's just not the way the market works. Yeah. I think we have to think about the system that we have now and if you're going to impose regulation, are you going to work with that system or are you going to impose requirements that are going to cause the entire system to change? Because with the investment company act self-custody rule, you know, there was this notion that while while certificated security was in transit, so in other words, it left the bank vault

and now a bike messenger has it and is bringing it over to to another um owner that while it was in transit, it didn't have to be held by the qualified custodian because at the time you had bike messengers doing this transit service. So you could have written the rule though to say the employees of the custodian have to employ the bank me the u bike messenger and they have to do x y and z to bring it over to the new owner. But they but that wasn't the decision that was made. The decision was we have

a system in place and so we're going to just say that there isn't a big problem with bike messengers stealing the certificates and so we're not going to require a qualified custodian during that bike trip. And I I think it's the same type of question where it's we have a system right now. It works a certain way that doesn't line up with what we think of in terms of traditional custody. And so do you want to work within that system and impose requirements that make sense for that

system or do you want to have to upheave that system and and create something new? on on the question of qualified custodians. Um something commissioner UEA said earlier about uh the SEC or staff considering the role of certain state regulated entities. Uh I I thought people might be surprised to hear because I know there's a lot of firms out there that sort of take the view that that uh c those state entities are are QC's. Are there ambiguities um in terms of whether those kinds of trust

companies or state specialized bank charters um actually are QC's and should the SEC be more clear and and clarify you know what qu what is a qualified custodian even within the sort of vague bank definition? Um Ryan, can I start with you on that one? Yeah, I mean um you know we have a New York limited purpose trust company and I think about you know how we're required to act and breathe every day. I mean it's really under New York banking law. I mean it's chartered um it's overseen. It's

governed by the banking regulator there. And so I think the point maybe um Commissioner was trying to tease out was you know but you know maybe not all states sort of act or treat that way to different limited purpose trust companies. So I do I do certainly think that you know under the definition of bank could be a limited purpose trust company and should be. Um but it's not clear to me that necessarily every state um you know has the regime uh has the you know experience the expertise the

oversight to treat the trust company as if it's operating like a bank. So I do think that it should be clear that you know those types of entities that are that and those types of states that that really act and and treat their trust companies under the banking regime should clearly be qualified custodians. But I think there there would need to be a framework to be clear that the state needs to do X Y and Z and the trust companies chartered within those states to to qualify. So the SEC would sort of

dictate what state what states would need to require. I think so. Yeah. I mean I think you know you know I I do think that um you know at least indicating that to the extent the trust companies overseen under the states state's banking law chartered supervised and then also you know within that language is that there's a fiduciary context. So you know the trust company is um also you know authorized to or the custodial activity is a fiduciary activity um and that airgo uh if the trust company's providing custodial

activity it's doing so as a fiduciary um I think under those circumstances yes that it should be a qualified custodian. I think that should be made clear. Yeah I would I would characterize the issue as more complexity than ambiguity. Um this the definition of bank is needlessly complex for these purposes. It has a good purpose for other um purposes under the statute both statutes. Um the definition of qualified custodian which by the way was only introduced you know 20 plus years ago in 2003. It's pretty new. Um it

incorporates a definition of bank. The definition of bank points back to OC interpretations for purposes of evaluating whether a non-depository state trust company could be a qualified custodian. So, so what folks have had to do is go back and parse through all the OC interpretations on what constitutes a fiduciary activity. And those interpretations have changed over the years. Um, and they they change from administration to administration. So, it leaves um it leaves the industry in a little bit of a pickle. I I think the

industry's done a really good job of navigating the definition so far. Um I think there there's no one out out here that doubts that a New York State Charter Trust Company is a qualified custodian. But um to encourage competition um to you know to bring more um more qualified custodians into this space which which frankly I think the industry needs. Um you you could pretty easily solve that uh complexity by by defining a bank for purposes of the qualified custodian or just defining a qualified custodian as including a state

charter trust company that does X Y and Z. There's a there's a framework in in another part of the statute that that the NISMA imple implementing provisions that talk about the divide between um the states and um and the SEC around advisor regulation and registration and it turns on whether a state uh in part turns on on whether a state uh supervises and examines a particular adviser or or has a regulatory regime for adviserss within that state. That might be something that you could graft

on to uh onto the definition of qualified custodian to clear this up. Susan, I agree with everything that Justin just said. Yeah, I was going to bring up that midsize advisor uh provision as well where it talks about, you know, it's not just enough that it's left to a state. The state have to h has to have certain regulatory um uh things in place. And I I guess that brings me back to you know what is a qualified custodian and and you know the principles that you would look to and you know is it is it a regulated

entity and if it's regulated does it require policies and procedures and and does it require a third party audit and and things like that that you would want because there might be other entities as well besides state chartered trust companies like perhaps licensed money transmitters also you would look to they have um capital requirements they require AML controls um So, so I don't think it, you know, I think if you're just acting within what the rule says right now and you have to fit within

that bank definition, then the state chartered trust company uh question comes into play. But if you're thinking more broadly, I don't know that you would necessarily want to want to limit it to just things that could fit within that bank definition. So I I when I asked the question earlier about SEC dictating what the states do, I was a bit tongue and cheek because I think the SEC generally doesn't want to be dictating what bank regulators do certainly at the state level, but it sounds like there may be some precedent

where the SEC sort of sets a threshold which like if the if the entity is regulated in a particular way uh that could be drafted on. And then Susan, just to sort of continue on the last thing you were saying and builds off what Neil was saying as well in terms of who else could or should be a qualified custodian? Um, does it have to be, you know, a bank, a broker dealer, potentially a trust company? Should it be expanded to MTL holders or specialized state licences like New York's bit license? I think California

and Louisiana and other states are developing similar regimes. Um, would it make sense, particularly for crypto, for there to be licenses that qualify based on those other kinds of activities and licenses beyond being a bank? Uh, and if so, what should those be? Um, uh, Chuck, can I, uh, ask you? Well, one place to start might be to look at entities that the SEC already places great trust in. The depository trust company, uh, for example, uh, and to ask the question, you know, if that's sufficient there, why

shouldn't it be, you know, a New York trust company sufficient somewhere else? uh but I generally agree with what's with what's been said that that some standards need to be imposed uh here and you know the the problem is I if I if I may just raise a general challenge that which I'm sure the SEC wants to hear even more challenges uh you know when a lot of rules are made whether it's private law or regulatory we've got an infrastructure out there and we're and we're trying to fit the

rules for the infrastructure and what it does. And here we have no infrastructure except one that's constantly evolving. And that's really a challenge. Uh and uh I'm sure they will do a good job. Please, Adam. Um I would just say I I I would I would be really uncomfortable if money transmitter licenses were sufficient to uh qualify someone to be a a custodian. The licensing process for money transmitters varies significantly from state to state, but in many states it's not a very high threshold of what

you need to get a license. You know, you have a few million dollars you can get in business with it, assuming you don't have a criminal record. Neil or Ryan? Oh, I was just going to say, yeah, I'd add on to that, too. But I think it's also, you know, going back to those core functional requirements. So, you know, and that goes to sort of segregation of assets from proprietary assets, auditability, security protocols, um, you know, legal enforcability against insolveny, sort of the points you were making. So, I think

there could be established criteria. Maybe an entity has to be, you know, a certain licensed entity. But nonetheless, I think that, you know, there could be established frameworks so long as it's meeting these, you know, certain criteria and functions, especially when this technology is fastm moving. Um, and and recognizing that the advisor, uh, you know, has this overarching fiduciary duty, um, you know, I think there might be a workable solution there. I mean one one area just uh one area where I just think um

there's going to need to be a lot more sort of parsing of the detail is is around um what you mentioned earlier Zach um technology provision. So where does somebody stop being a technology provider and become a qualified custodian? That line I think is going to be increasingly blurred. It's a hard question in this context. Yeah, very hard question in this context particularly because some technology providers do not many technology providers do not want to be qualified custodians. Oh, you just provided the

software and that's that's basically all we're doing. But but but at some point you know you you realize that there is a gap in the sense that people are looking to those technology providers as basically being their custodial solution. So that expect I mean that gap should not translate to a mismatch with the end customer or the end user's expectations of what's going on with his or her asset. So so that's one point that I will make there. The second the second point that I want to make here is

we've always had this and this is a particular interest of mine but the foreign qualified custodian I've never quite found out who those guys are or like you know what what we what the details are on that. I mean I I think the safeguarding proposal goes into a lot of detail about what we would expect around them but but as the law stands I don't think there's a lot of discussion but but in the crypto world assets are traded globally firms don't necessarily exist anywhere uh in in in in the

traditional sense and so what what really would that fourth prong of the qualified custodian sort of cover or the third or fourth prong qualified custodian cover I'm not quite sure so I think oh sorry Ryan yeah I was just gonna gonna say where I I think a becomes really interesting is you know what we're moving toward are programmable assets you know via smart contract infrastructure and do those assets take on some custodial qualities you know you can freeze the asset you can claw back the asset um and have that

function that if X happens then that action will happen which some in some ways custodians are charged with doing that so over time as we're sitting here you know 10 years from now do we see a framework more where in fact the asset itself has taken on some custodial function. That's we're we're very excited about sort of seeing that that evolution and hopefully you know come to fruition. Replace qualified custody with smart contracts I think as we talked about earlier. Um, Chuck, last last

remarks because I think we are running out of time. I need to turn it uh back over to the Well, just to come full circle, the last comments I think are really relevant to the self-custody issue because we hope there will continue to emerge platforms and competitors who will say, "Here's how we can provide you a good interface with the assets other than a custodial interface." And that's really uh uh really important. And in some ways it's it's easier with crypto than it is with

the clunky process we have for direct registration of legacy securities. So I think um we are out of time for this panel. Thank you everyone panelist so much for uh all your insightful remarks. Um I think turn it over to uh Samira. Thank you. Yes. Thank you to our panelists for a great discussion. Um, Commissioner Pur once said that safeguarding client assets is at the heart of investor protection. And I think the conversation today illuminated that. Commissioner Pur's face got worried when I said

Commissioner Pur once said, don't worry, it's it was a real Commissioner Pur quote. So, I've been blown away by the effort and energy that all of our panelists so far have put into these discussions. But one of the panelists today has really set a new bar. He left his family vacation in a warm tropical destination to fly here this morning to participate and will fly back after this. So, thank you. That is true dedication to helping move forward the conversation on these important issues.

and he may be single soon, but I do appreciate the participation. So, it's late on a Friday afternoon, so I hope you aren't expect So, I hope you aren't staking on me coming up with another pun. Kind of messed that up. I want to encourage everyone here and everyone watching online to continue your engagement. Please visit the crypto task force website where you can provide written input, request a meeting with the task force and read the many great submissions we've already received. We

want to continue the the great work that the task force has been doing with everyone's help. So we have two more roundts to go in our sprint sprint up next. We will focus on tokenization that's going to be here in just over two weeks. We'll be on a Monday so we can all stop making the Friday references. I do appreciate everyone who has been here for the three Friday roundt so far. Apparently, there are a host of you that have attended all three have a perfect attendance record so far. So, if you can

make it to the other two, I'm going to come up with some sort of token for for your participation that will comply with all government ethics rules. Thank you all so much. Have a great weekend. Thanks.

