Good afternoon and welcome to the concluding roundt in our spring sprint toward cryptoclarity. Our focus today is on DeFi and the American spirit. Since our first round table earlier this spring, we've had the opportunity to hear scholars, practitioners, and business leaders discuss the promises and the challenges that the commission and others should consider in charting a new regulatory path forward for this industry in the United States. In today's round table, we'll spend some time considering where the boundaries

lie between financial activity that should be regulated because it is intermediate intermediated by centralized entities and financial activity that does not involve such intermediaries and thus may be outside the scope of the securities laws. We're fortunate to end our roundt series as we began with Troy Parades as our moderator. Thank you Troy for making a second appearance. And as with each of our previous roundts, we have a fantastic group of panelists today to help us understand what it means for

finance to be decentralized. Before I conclude, I would like to express my appreciation for the enthusiasm that all of you have shown for this series of roundts and for your contributions through engagement with the task force and through conversations elsewhere with the ideas our panelists have articulated on this platform. I also want to express my appreciation to the amazing team of people from the task force and throughout this building who've put in countless hours to make these roundts happen. Watching the

effort that has gone into planning these events and believe me, commission processes for planning this sort of thing are as thorough as anything else done at the commission has more than once made me wonder whether sprint was quite the right term for this effort. I don't have time to thank everybody involved, but I do particularly want to thank my team and especially Samira Ununas, Ilana Chiabano, Robert Teppley, and Landon Zinda. In closing, I would like to remind everyone that this event is being

streamed live and is being covered by multiple media outlets. Accordingly, please be aware that all remarks by commission officials, participants, and members of our audience will be on the record. In addition, please remember that the participants in today's roundt speak on their own behalf and that their views do not necessarily reflect the views of the commission, the commissioners or members of the commission staff. We're now ready to begin with remarks from Chairman Atkins, followed by Commissioner

Krenshaw, Commissioner Ua, and Commissioner Pur. Mr. Chairman, Oh, great. Well, uh, thank you very much, uh, Richard, and good afternoon to all of you here in, uh, our auditorium and online as well. So, it's a great pleasure to be with you all today. Uh let me begin by thanking Commissioner Pur um and the crypto task force for their organizing of today's event and Commissioner Krenshaw and Commissioner Uea for their participation as well. Of course, I very much thank all of you here on the round table, the for

panelists and our moderator Troy Paradus former commissioner Tradus Paradus for your voluntary uh contribution of time and talent to this uh mighty endeavor that we're undertaking. So today's round table is entitled DeFi in the American Spirit. Uh this is I think an apt title because the American values of economic liberty, private property rights and innovation are in the DNA of DeFi or decentralized finance and the movement um of that. Uh blockchains of course are a very creative and in potentially

revolutionary innovation that have us rethinking evidence of ownership and transfer of intellectual and economic property rights. They are shared databases that enable the ownership of a type of digital property called crypto assets uh without reliance on an intermediary or central party. Instead, these peer-to-peer networks incorporate an economic mechanism to encourage participants to validate and maintain the database in accordance with the network's rules. These are free market systems where users pay demand-based

fees to network participants to have their transactions included within a so-called block of data with finite storage capacity. Uh the prior US government administration discouraged Americans from participating in these market-based systems by asserting through lawsuits, speeches, regulation, and threatened regulatory action that participants and staking as a service providers may be engaged in securities transactions. I'm grateful to the division of corporation finance staff for clarifying this view

that its view that uh voluntary participation in proof of work or proof ofstake network as a minor or validator or staking as a service provider is not within the scope of the federal securities laws. As happy as I am over that step, this statement uh is not a dy promulgated rule with a force of law. So we cannot stop there. The Securities and Exchange Commission must adopt a regulation based on the authority that Congress has given us. Another core feature of blockchain technology is the ability of individuals to have

self-custody of crypto assets in a personal digital wallet. The right to have self-custody of one's private property is a foundational American value that should not disappear when one logs onto the internet. I'm in favor of affording greater uh flexibility to market participants to self-custody crypto assets, especially where intermediation imposes unnecessary transaction costs or restricts the ability to engage in staking and other onchain activities. Unfortunately, the prior administration

undermined innovation in self-custodial digital wallets and other onchain technologies by asserting through regulatory actions that the developers of such software may be conducting brokerage activity. Engineers should not be subject to the federal securities laws solely for publishing this type of software code. As one court put it, it would be irrational to hold the developer of a self-driving car liable. And here quoting from the court's decision, quote, for a third party's use of the car to commit a traffic violation

or rob a bank. In those circumstances, one would not sue the car company for facilitating the wrongdoing. They would sue the individual who committed the wrong. And here just recently the Supreme Court in a case regarding firearms underlined that particular uh sentiment. Many entrepreneurs are developing software applications that are designed to function without administration by any operator. The idea of self-executing software code that's accessible to everyone but controlled by no one and that enables private

peer-to-peer transactions may sound like science fiction. But blockchain tech blockchain technology makes possible an entirely new class of software that can perform these functions without an intermediary. I do not believe that we should allow a century old regulatory framework to stifle innovation with technologies that could upend and most importantly improve and advance our current traditional intermediated uh model. We should not automatically fear the future. These onchain self-executing software systems have proven to be

resilient in the face of crisis. While centralized platforms wavered and failed under recent stresses, many onchain systems continue to operate as designed pursuant to open-source code. Most current securities rules and regulations are premised on the regulation of issuers and intermediaries such as broker dealers, investment advisors, exchanges, and clearing agencies. The drafters of these rules and regulations likely did not contemplate that self-executing software code might displace such issuers and

intermediaries. I've asked the commission staff to explore whether further guidance or rulemaking may be helpful for enabling regists in compliance with applicable law. I'm also excited about the use of onchain software systems by issuers and intermediaries to eliminate economic frictions, increase capital efficiency, enable new types of financial products, and enhance liquidity. current securities uh regulations already contemplate the use of new technologies by issuers and intermediaries, but I've asked the staff

to go further and to consider whether amendments to the commission's rules and regulations would be better suited to provide needed accommodation for issuers and intermediaries to seek to administer onchain financial systems. So, while the commission and its staff work to propose fitforpurpose rules of the road for onchain financial markets, I've directed the staff to consider a conditional exemptive relief framework or let's call it an innovation exemption that would expeditiously allow registre

to bring onchain products and services to market. An innovation exemption could help fulfill President Trump's vision to make America the quote crypto capital of the planet uh unquote by encouraging developers, entrepreneurs, and other firms that are willing to comply with certain conditions to innovate with onchain technologies in the United States. So with that uh thank you all very much for your attention and thanks again to the participants for what I anticipate to be a really good uh give

and take on the panel and Troy keep them in line and uh get all the uh the best uh ideas out. But thank you all very much and have a good afternoon. [Applause] Good afternoon. As we begin the final event of this crypto task force series, I think this is a good opportunity to reflect on what has come out of these roundts and where the task force and the commission are going from here. These roundts have highlighted that crypto is far from a monolith. We have heard a marketkedly diverse set of viewpoints from many different segments

of the industry. We have heard, for example, from many nonsecreed entities with varying views on whether they or their products should be required to register and be subject to SEC jurisdiction. I expect that this will be a key theme of today's DeFi panel. Back in November of 2021, I wrote an article detailing my views on the opportunities and challenges of DeFi, which I believe require industry and regulatory collaboration to develop compliant solutions. The issue is I raised in that article related to market

structure, transparency, and retail investor protection among others, and still remain questions today. So, I look forward to hearing the panelist's views on how we should approach these challenges. Beyond issues related to registration and jurisdictional lines, other roundts have focused on current SEC regs, but with altered regulatory requirements tailored to new types of products and technologies. In addition to these varied and sometimes competing regulatory views, we've heard different opinions on the

technologies underlying digital asset products and services. We've heard panelists highlight advantages or disadvantages of particular technologies and give differing predictions on their capabilities to function effectively as part of a large complex securities market. In some these roundts have given us a lot to grapple with to say the least. While the series was built as a spring sprint towards cryptoclarity, I am unsure whether we've identified much can be simply or quickly clarified.

When it comes to crypto, it does not appear to me that the SEC is facing problems with ready or easy solutions. What we are facing is heightened expectations of rolling out major changes quickly to pave the way for crypto expansion into the capital markets. With issues this complex and stakes this high, it's better to do it right than fast. We need to grapple with the tough questions through the legally sanctioned process of formal rulemaking, as Chairman Atkins mentioned, with the full opportunity for notice and comment and

public interest findings. I look forward to engaging with my fellow commissioners, the staff, and the public on what I hope will be a thoughtful and missiondriven rulemaking process for this space. Thank you to all for the roundts you put on, all the work, and thank you all for being here today. Appreciate it. [Applause] Well, good afternoon and thank you to the panelists and all the attendees today for the commission's fifth round table organized by the crypto task force entitled DeFi and the American Spirit.

Reflecting on the American spirit brings to mind the expedition of Merryweather Lewis and William Clark. About 220 years ago on May 14th, 1804, Lewis and Clark set out to explore the new Louisiana territory purchased the prior year by President Thomas Jefferson. The size of the United States had doubled overnight, but there were no reliable maps or established routes through the new land. Despite this daunting challenge, Lewis and Clark entered the wilderness to carry out their mission. While not

nearly as fraught with personal danger, the commission is similarly navigating through challenging new terrain and plunging into the regulatory wilderness under the leadership of Commissioner Pur and the crypto task force. While the commission's tools, we don't use wagons and rope and pickaxes, but instead are things such as roundts, public consultation, and economic analysis may be different. I am confident that our expedition can succeed in updating our rulebook to open up new opportunities

for American investors and businesses. The SEC's treatment of decentralized finance and other emerging technologies over the past four years was not conducive to regulatory transparency and discouraged entrepreneurs and those developing DeFi from engaging with the commission. However, that approach has recently changed under the crypto task force, which is charged with coordinating the commission's efforts to find answers to many pressing questions. Thus far, they have changed the SEC's posture on

crypto, embraced difficult regulatory questions, and promoted transparency by engaging with market participants, driving innovation and change. This SEC is committed to highquality regulation. Highquality regulation takes time and administrative processes matter. For those who are involved in the development of DeFi, please be patient and work with the commission and its staff towards achieving the best possible outcome. Although I am uncertain as to what the perfect regulation may look like, the

path towards it begins with seeking input from the public. This journey towards regulatory clarity will likely be frustrating and may move in fits and starts. However, by learning from DeFi innovators and advocates, the commission has a better chance at regulating securities transactions involving DeFi and protecting American investors who utilize decentralized financial services and products. Today's participants will provide knowledge and insight about DeFi's development and the existing regulatory

barriers preventing growth. Such contributions will help the commission attempt to strike the proper balance between its role as a regulator and its mandate to foster competition, efficiency, and capital formation. In DeFi, there is a landscape of new opportunities. People can transact directly with each other without relying on banks or other sec centralized intermediaries. The commission should not refrain from engaging in oversight of novel areas simply because it involves thinking outside the existing

framework. The legacy regulatory regime under the federal securities laws presupposes the existence and necessity of numerous intermediaries. I look forward to hearing from today's panelists as to whether such presumptions remain necessary. For example, in what types of situations do DeFi systems and smart contracts potentially eliminate the need for a financial intermediary and how? In what situations should defy systems be deemed to fall outside the scope of the securities laws? what key safeguards are

necessary when the securities laws apply to th these arrangements. Lewis and Clark's journey lasted over two years and carved out an important path to facilitate westward expansion. In doing so, they provided a valuable contribution to American progress. Today's round table reflects the SEC's commitment to continued progress and its willingness to consider the roles of emerging technologies. As the commission continues to move through the regulatory wild wilderness, it should remain true

to its mission of protecting investors, maintaining fair, orderly, and efficient markets and facilitating capital information in its efforts to respond to market innovation. So, thank you very much and I look forward to the conversation. [Applause] Okay, we're almost there. We didn't bring you guys here to listen to us, but um but I do want to welcome everyone who's watching, and I want to thank um Chairman Atkins, Commissioner Krenshaw, and Commissioner Uda for your remarks. Um, and of course, um, I'm excited to be

here for our final, um, roundt, uh, DeFi in the American spirit. Thank you, Troy, for coming back and joining us. We thought you did a fantastic job the first time around. So, it's great to have you back with us again. Um, we have high expectations based on your last performance and thank you to all the panelists for taking the time um, to join us today. Over the past four months, the task force force has held roundts on security status, trading, tokenization, and custody. These roundts have provided invaluable input um for

the commission and the task force and the rest of the staff here. It's informed our views and has improved our efforts and will continue to do so. The task force has hit the ground running um in in this sprint as you've heard. Um, but I do think that it is it's more likely uh to lead to a marathon toward regulatory clarity. I don't uh I hope that it doesn't take as long as Lewis and Clark did with their expedition. I don't want to be doing this for uh two years, but but I hope that we can make

some progress and I know that all of you will help us in making that progress. Um so you may be asking what business does the SEC have in talking about regulating DeFi? Absolutely none is an is a reasonable answer. So maybe we should just stop now and go home. But as you know, it's Washington and so we can't do things that fast. We have to uh it's not that simple. Even getting to know regulation requires some talking and that's what we're going to do today. What is DeFi? Um Bitcoin is decentralized finance, but

it may not be what first comes to mind when you think about that topic. If we trust uh Google, it says that DeFi is a blockchainbased financial system that aims to replace traditional financial institutions with peer-to-peer transactions and smart contracts. It brings to mind decentralized networks, which enable people to trade tokens and derivatives, engage in lending, or participate in prediction markets. Although sometimes referred to as DeFi platforms, DeFi is not a place people go to access services that someone else

provides and controls. It's software code that people use to engage in the activity of transacting without a centralized intermediary. So we're ch to channel one of today's panelists. I do not go to a decentralized exchange. I make a decentralized exchange. Um thank you Peter for that. Um, DeFi defies our traditional permissioned world of intermediary as it enables a person to engage with her peers through a protocol that is open to everybody on the same transparent terms. No need to get

consent from any centralized gatekeeper. At its core, DeFi, which blockchain technology enables, is about the freedom to transact with your peers without permission, interference or intermediation. And that is why DeFi resonates so deeply with the American spirit. Also resonant with the American spirit is the ability of people to publish written material without permission. Code is protected speech. Because the first amendment protects someone who writes a DeFi software protocol and publishes it, the SEC has no authority

to demand pre-publication approval rights, even for code that could be used to exchange securities. The SEC must not infringe on First Amendment rights by regulating someone who merely publishes code on the basis that others use that code to carry out activity that the SEC has traditionally regulated. If somebody else subsequently violates the law using the software protocol, the user, not the developer of the software, should face the music. But sometimes the writer of a protocol used to exchange security

securities does more than merely publish it. She might also operate, administer or maintain a platform through which the code can be accessed and that takes custody of client assets or makes execution decisions for clients. In this and other instances, the coder or her platform might be subject to regulation for that conduct. If that conduct relates to securities, the SEC might have a role to play. I think it might be helpful to think about this in context of an enforcement case that the commission brought um seven years ago

and that was the its case against Zachary Coburn. That was a settled case. So we don't have the advantage of a court having wrestled with these facts and the and the order is is actually pretty sparse in detail. Um but Coburn developed the code for Ether Delta in exchange for ERC20 tokens. And under um the exchange act, the SEC charged Coburn with causing its vi ether delta's violation of the requirement to register as a securities exchange per section five of the exchange act. Although

again, the details are are pretty sketched out sketched out pretty lightly in that settlement order. Um, I think there some facts that could help spur discussion on which types of activities the SEC should reach. Coburn was the only person with the ability to alter the Ether Delta smart contract as he was the only person with access to the private key for the administrator account which could be used to change the permissible fees for transacting using Ether Delta or the address to which uh of the account to which those

fees were then directed. the order book sat on a centralized server that was maintained by Ether Delta um rather than on the the Ethereum blockchain itself. So maybe some food for for conversation um at the panel today. Centralized um entities that use DeFi protocols that someone else wrote to serve clients don't get a regulatory pass of course um they can use that tool much as they can use other kinds of tools. Uh and centralized entities can't avoid um regulation simply by rolling out the

decentralized label. Um there's such a thing as Dino decentralized in name only. Um with centralized entities of course comes the potential for fraud, conflicts of interest, principal agent problems, information asymmetries and other issues that are common in traditional finance. And so those are the issues actually that DeFi was designed to address. Um but if if you are dealing with centralized entity entities, that might be where the SEC's efforts are best spent. Um protecting investors not from their own use of

open-source software code to engage in transactions with their peers. Um we also do don't need to protect them from writers of code but from providers of financial services. Um I hope that today's discussion will help to help us to ensure that SEC regulation is able to reach activities and entities properly with its in within its ambit regardless of what label they bear without prohibiting the exercise of individuals rights to publish code and interact with that code. So now I'll hand it off to

Troy. I'm looking forward to the um conversation. Thank you. [Applause] Thank you, Commissioner Pur and everybody in the task force for the chance to be back and moderate the last of the um of the round table is very much looking forward to the discussion before we jump into the substance. Let me um walk through a few of the game plan points. This is as much for the panelist as for all of you to know how this is going to proceed. So, the first thing I will say is is that I'll be calling on people, but so that the first

three folks aren't caught off guard. They don't know who they are yet. I'll tell you I'll tell you who you are. It's going to be Rebecca and then Eric and then Michael Michael Moer. And then we'd ask that I'd ask that you keep your responses particularly this first go around to no more than two or three um minutes so we have time to get everybody's views on the table and then we can really get into the discussion. When responding, your bios are on the task force uh web page and it's an

incredibly impressive group of individuals. So, no need to give your bio, but you could just say your name and and and say your affiliation and leave it at that and folks can take a look at the web page um to get more of the particulars on your impressive uh backgrounds. I'd ask next that you keep it as much as you can um even if it's more than you're otherwise willing to as much as you can uh engaged and interactive with one another. I would ask that you get my attention. If you want to chime in, I'll keep a queue. Try

to keep it try to keep it moving. If there are things I hear that folks are talking about similar similar points, I may jump around a little bit and call somebody to see if they want to want to weigh in. But if you just get my attention, I'll keep the queue and we can um we can make sure that folks have a chance to to weigh in because the more engaging it is, I think the more uh productive it will be for uh for the commission. Um, if I interrupt, I apologize in advance for being rude, but if I interrupt, it's simply to try to

keep it moving so we can make sure that everybody has uh an opportunity. Hopefully, I don't need to do that, but just fair fair notice on the chance that uh that I do. One thing I think can be very very helpful is if you're using a particular term, term of art, jargon, what have you, that can be useful because it can be an efficient way to move the discussion along. At the same time, not everybody has the same understanding or people may use a word a different way or use the same word differently, what have you. So, if

there's a key term you're using, take the 10 seconds, define your terms. That way, you can just help make sure that any points of of um clarification can be uh can be highlighted at the outset. We'll go for about um an hour and a half until just shy of 3 p.m. uh Eastern time. We'll then have um a break and then after uh the break um there will be audience questions. I'll come to this in a minute that folks can submit. I'll fold those in um to discussion piggybacking on a number of the things

that came out in this particular uh session and have a good discussion after the break as well. To that point, questions are encouraged. There's a table as I understand it in the entrance before you came into the auditorium. I think you can find that if you want to submit a question, just write down your question. You can find somebody who's wearing a name tag that says I'm part of the crypto uh task force uh here at the SEC. Give it to them. And if you're joining online today, you can submit

questions through the commission's website at crypto.se.gov gov and just note round table question in the subject line so folks who are monitoring that know what uh know what the um you're reaching out on and when all is said and done today um there will probably be some disagreement hopefully there'll be some agreement but I think it will be most productive if there's a good lively engaging uh conversation going back to what Commissioner Pur said in her remarks there's a heck of a lot

to think through and I don't think we could have a better group of panelists to help uh the commission do so. So with all of that out of the way, Rebecca, so if you could start us off, set the stage um if you will, maybe the biggest question of all given the uh panel, excuse me, the round table today and that is how would you define describe DeFi and what are its distinctive features as compared to uh Tradfi and along those lines is it too amorphous to define? Should we be okay with a more principles-based approach? Should we

have something which is very nitty-gritty, technically technological in nature? And how does that inform just as a general matter the mindset that you think one ought to bring when trying to figure out DeFi, what it is, what its opportunities are, perhaps what some of the risks are, and what those implications then are in terms of thinking about what the appropriate regulatory framework ought to be. Thanks so much, Troy. Thanks to the commission for having me today and for convening this round table. Um, DeFi

stands for decentralized finance. I'll start at a very high level, the 30,000 foot view, and then try to get a little more uh into the weeds as I go in my short period of time. But, um, none of industry regulators or policy makers, I think, have been able to come to a consensus on how to define DeFi. Uh I typically define DeFi as a blockchainbased open software system that allows users to engage in economic transactions in a self-directed and entirely self-custodial manner without the need for traditional intermediaries. There

are other people who and a lot of regulators have defined it as simply a blockchain based system that allows financial services that is very broad and probably would encompass many of what even banks are trying to build today uh in terms of DeFi. I mean in terms of uh their work with crypto assets and some people have gotten very very technical as you suggested Troy to get into the details of um you know how the technology itself works how smart contracts which are uh pieces of self-executing code work and the like. I

think we also need to think about what is decentralization as we think about DeFi. Decentralization is a philosophy that generally espouses movement away from power, authority or control being centralized with one entity or one actor and moving towards a disintermediation or a dislocation of both actors, jurisdictions and other uh dispersion of the concept of power and control in terms of thinking about regulating DeFi today. And I'm sure we're going to get much more into the details about this, but I don't think

it's actually necessary to either define decentralization uh or DeFi in order to determine whether a particular actor needs to be regulated. I think as we heard uh in many of the opening statements, just publishing code alone is not regulable uh via something like the Securities and Exchange Commission. But when we are thinking about what types of activities people are engaged in, we can understand where there may be an intersection of the law and technology or the law and certain types of technological

functions. I think algorithmic trading is a great uh correlary to think about it because in theory the algorithm that is making asset management or investment decisions uh could function on its own but you have uh the uh investment advisors register even when they're using these algorithms and codes because they can impose their judgment. they can override the algorithm when there are other types of concerns around it and they do still even when using code take on certain types of control or authority

activities that may require and does require in many instances regulation. So when you think about a decentralized exchange that is operating autonomously much like the unis swap code does that doesn't seem to require as of today regulation of the people who built the code. But the question then becomes well what if you have independent third parties building unis swap pools with tokenized securities and who is responsible and for what and that type of activity. I think the other complicated this my last point the other

complicated piece with DeFi is a lot of the activities don't look like anything we are used to in traditional finance. So questions of holding keys to a multi- signature wallet that can pause a DeFi protocol in the case of emergency does not look anything necessarily like pulling the circuit breakers on the New York Stock Exchange or something like that. So I think moving away from just the definition of what we think of as DeFi or decentralization and really thinking about activities will move us

forward and thinking about how we could regulate the space if at all. And just a a real quick and there'll be more opportunity Rebecca for you to pick pick up this point but in addition to that distinction as you were describing between say code on the one hand versus activities on the other where does risk fit in is also part of the consideration not only thinking about what are the activities but what are the risks and are those the kinds of risks for which a regulator should be playing a role or

not is that part of it as well. Uh great question. I think that there are three central risks that no pun intended that come from DeFi. Uh one is cyber risk. I think when you really think about how these DeFi systems are built out, uh cyber is the most important because it is code and it is functioning autonomously. Uh in at least for certain types of D5 protocols, I think then there's also something called system management risk. It is is there an intermediary or is there somebody who has some form of control? Is that

properly disclosed and are they properly I think uh to you know as we think about for web two types of software platforms protecting against certain vulnerabilities and the like and then I think that there is potentially elicit finance risk but the source of that comes from usage and other um actors engaging uh in the space and there I'm sure we'll get to this later but there are ways to uh mitigate against that but it doesn't look it goes to back to what I was saying before something like

holding the keys to a multi- signature wallet uh doesn't look the same as you know the other types of traditional activities. One thing I wanted to follow up on was your question of what are the hallmarks of DeFi. I'm sure other panelists will get into that but I think just to do it quickly uh non-custodial I think is a uh or self-custodial is a non-negotiable when you're thinking about DeFi. Um I would also say open source so that everything is transparent and openly available. I think one of the

uh much uh different than how DeFi is portrayed. It is not some shadow system that's being built in the dark. I think DeFi is open, transparent, and really trying to be built in the light. Uh and uh autonomous as well so that it can function uh without intermediaries. Great. So, I'm going to go a little bit out of my initial order because Peter's getting my attention. So, I'm going to go ahead and have Peter Peter jump in here and then I'll come back to Eric. Thanks, Troy. Um, I just wanted to make

a brief introjection on the question of risk and how we use it to define regulated entities. There's a a very catchy phrase, same risk, same regulation, that often has a lot of wisdom to teach us. I think that, and Commissioner Pur teed this up with a lot of discussion about First Amendment rights in this context. You know, that's a utilitarian calculus that we see out in the world that there are these harms that represent certain things that could be addressed through public policy initiatives and that we

could ultimately through a consequentialist view of the world improve the social utility of these markets, reduce investor harms. That kind of consequentialist calculation is almost always the right calculation to make except where certain long-held American values are at stake with making that calculation. So, I just briefly hearken to Ronald Dorin, a personal hero of mine, who identified certain rights as Trump's. Um, that that that phrase unfortunately means something different now that we have a President Trump. But

there's this notion that yes, we're always going to want to try and craft our regulation or our way that we address um public dilemmas with an eye towards maximizing the good. But at a certain point, even if it's the socially beneficial outcome, there are certain areas we don't tread in this country. At certain point, a right like my right to publish code trumps the risk that that code creates in the world. And so the the risk created by perhaps a DeFi trading algorithm that allows people to

engage in decentralized exchange, which is a verb, not a noun in this case, might be very similar to the risks that we see in centralized exchanges and might lead to similar bad outcomes for individuals in America. But even given that, even given that there might be some same risk, same regulation questions at play here, we would not put a prior restraint on an American's ability to publish that software. And there's more we can discuss later, I'm sure, about past case law with the SEC

and the First Amendment in say low versus SEC, but I'll certainly hold off until then. Yeah, let's hold off on low versus SEC. Maybe we'll get to the particulars there or at least the spirit of it. But Peter, since we're with you at this moment, let me just pick up on one point then I'm going to come back to to Eric. And that is given what you were just saying is is the principle for you that ought to be, if I'm describing it correctly, a constraint on what otherwise might be a set of

considerations, almost a hierarchy of considerations in terms of how one thinks about approaching it. People may have different hierarchies as they place different weights on all those different considerations and different value structures etc etc. So stipulating as to all of that from your personal perspective is the first amendment the one that features most prominently from my personal perspective and from coin center the organization where I have that is most prominent but it doesn't mean it's easy I'm not a code is

speech maximalist and you're never going to be able to regulate math right these things can become a parody of themselves and somewhat silly and that's why and we will get to sec versus low later uh or low versus sec later hopefully but there is a lot of juristp prudence that's rich and incredibly important on the division between speech per se and professional conduct that mostly involves speech which can be subject to prior restraint and regulation. I am a lawyer. I had to get barred in order to practice law.

Most of practicing law is doing this silly thing I'm doing right now, which is speaking. Why is that prior restraint on my mostly speaking profession allowed? Because when I'm a lawyer that's barred and representing a client, I'm engaged in conduct. I'm acting on their behalf with their interests in mind. And yes, I'm mostly speaking, but you can damn well sure prior restraint my speech when I'm actually representing a client. Figuring that out in the DeFi world is very complicated, is very hard.

But there is a rich, rich history of juristprudence from our Supreme Court, which is one of the things that makes me very proud to be an American, that will help us here. So Eric, so taking in some sense what Rebecca was saying, what Peter was saying and melding a whole host of things together, markets. So if you open up a economics textbook, right, there be lots of chapters on competitive markets and what makes for a competitive marketplace, etc., etc., etc., and all of that. extraordinarily important, consequential, and it goes to

some of the points the commissioners and the chairman were making as well in terms of what the opportunity is in terms of markets and transacting that DeFi affords. On the one hand, when you think about it in kind of less technical textbooky sorts of sorts of ways, the words that often get used are free markets and another word that often gets used are fair markets. And oftentimes the two come together in terms of free and fair. It is sometimes the case that in conversation those words aren't crisply

defined that there's an assumption as to what they mean or don't mean and there's a lot of values as well as economics that are baked into those concepts. From your perspective, as you think about markets, be they free, be they be they fair, and what DeFi affords from a how we think about markets perspective as compared to more centralized marketplaces. What are your thoughts? Hi everyone, thanks for uh thanks for having me. Um I didn't think 12 years ago when I got my first SEC subpoena

that I'd be invited to come speak in front of you all. And uh I want to say um sincerely that I appreciate the change of tone and the change of stance in the commission. I think that's uh it's absolutely a positive for for America. Um, when it comes to markets, I think we have seen in crypto, in DeFi, uh, the most American spirit rushing back in to help, um, bring economic commerce back to where it should be. When we say words like the American spirit, uh I think we must recognize that that always entails a strong degree

of rebellion, a strong degree of individual liberty, um a strong degree of risk-taking, and a strong degree of entrepreneurialism. And starting from when Bitcoin emerged uh until now with DeFi and everything that has grown up around it, um it's hard not to see that as a reaction to what is supposed to be the freest country on earth uh slowly decaying into one that encumbers all market participants in in myriad ways. And uh when we see the rise of crypto, I think we must first understand it as a

reaction, as a market-based reaction because markets always find a way. And uh in in crypto, in DeFi, we see this um really coming back into force. And what would be what would be helpful I think u for anyone looking at this subject is to simply see the the virtue and the courage in that kind of exploration. I think maybe culturally in America we have gotten a little complacent, a little comfortable. Um, and crypto really reminds us that there is always a frontier and that we should be pursuing it. So, um to see it as a as

a noble, um a noble pursuit, something that is not swept under the rug and is not like some some dark machine that we can't control, but is actually um you know, the reemergence of of light back into financial systems, I think, is a an important starting point. Is there is there a particular something from a regulatory perspective that you think would help or at least not that shouldn't that should be done to help advance what you just articulated andor that shouldn't be done so as not to

impede the advancement of what you just articulated. Yeah. The um what is it in medicine that the hypocratic oath right? Um first do no harm. Is that is that right? uh markets do not need a regulator to enable them. They are emergent phenomena. They occur uh without any kind of central um central power making it so. And just the the first recognition from regulators that that's the case would be good. Uh and then when you look at crypto and DeFi, you have to realize that these are actually machines of perfect regulation

that uh the way that a smart contract operates is a perfect regulator. It does precisely what it is shown what is told to do. It executes regardless of who is using it. It doesn't matter what your background is. It doesn't matter where you're from or what your skin color is. It doesn't matter your gender or your sexual orientation. It is a true blind uh rule of law machine. And it would be nice if the regulators who um portray themselves as caring about the rule of law would understand

that these mechanisms are themselves u incredible new machines of regulation. and to simply stand in awe of them at first before trying to um get into all their gears and break everything that makes them so beautiful. Michael Moer, I'm going to do my best. Well, um, I'll pose a question, but feel free to uh feel free to respond to to to what Eric was just saying. But as a piece of that, if you think about the ways in which the financial markets in the US have developed over a very long period of

time and the regulatory um infrastructure and in part the regulatory infrastructure has informed the ways in which the markets have developed and the way the markets have developed has informed what policy makers think the right or right. So there's a a bit of cause and effect and the arrow going both directions and at this point we have what we have. But one of the defining characteristics of what we have is a regulatory um framework across financial services and the and the SEC is no exception which is

very intermediary centric. Now, I think picking up on on Eric's point, intermediaries may come into existence because they can reduce what can otherwise be transaction costs broadly defined in the marketplace. So, they may just come about. There's a business opportunity to help parties transact or whatever it happens to be to shoulder risk or what have you. There are other instances where the government says you by doing this are a this that or the other and we regulate this thats and and the others. So, broker dealer

etc etc. So how do you think about it where we have a regulatory environment which is very intermediary ccentric just is the case descriptively with DeFi decentralization which at its core its essence is not that how do those things should we should should not we should policy makers be trying to reconcile should policy makers in some sense going back to what Rebecca was saying a flavor of what Eric was saying and then overall all big picture considerations is as Peter was saying or just say hey you

know what we just need a whole new construct that we got to set aside approaches that are very intermediary centric and just fundamentally think about it differently is that what they should do or should they try to you know square peg around hole how should they approach it yeah thank you Troy I think it's I mean I think Rebecca articulated a lot of the risks that we've that we've thought through in the decentralized finance space and I think it's not necessarily wholesale difference.

There's a lot to build on. Um, but it is different. We're not uh this isn't people shopping at a mall anymore. I mean, we've dealt with this with the with the invent of online commerce. Uh, it's different types of risk. So, uh, there was a time where it was people shopping in the mall. You needed a mall cop as fast as the fastest shoplifter and you and you came up with cameras to watch for that sort of thing. That's not what happening now. It's it's high frequency data packets that are moving

at exceptional speeds. And in the same way that we moved from telegraphs to to switchboard operators to mobile phones, um we we changed the way that we dealt with risk. And the risk in in in the situation of a mobile phone is is again it's like a it's a communications risk. It's SIM swapping. It's not moving people back to switchboard operators because people are getting SIM swapped. And I think that's the opportunity here is to is to look at ways that we can automate the risk detection and make

people safer uh rather than just in injecting intermediaries. And some of this we've we've grappled with through many many years. Fininsen used to regulate telegraphs as a as a financial institution actually as its own category. Um and then as there was more experience with what telegraphs were doing, it was realized yes they're transmitting communications data but actually they are not a financial institution. They are a data transmitter and there was this they were exempted actually and they remain exempted from

that. Uh and there's a separate money services category specifically because data communications is not the same as financial activity even though that some of that data might carry financial data and part of that is recognizing that what are the risks? The risk here are cyber risks in many cases. Um, and so we dealt with this in in 2019 with the Fininsen guidance. We specifically said there are those who are accepting and transmitting value in a sense of having total independent control over it. And

then there are those who are engaged in what we call a trade which are software developers who are creating the developing the data communications and network services that just allow things to move. And we and this is not also not new like with Swift moves data messages that account for actually around5 trillion dollars per day uh in in dollar transaction between banks. These are this is communications data that's going between banks that the banks are then updating their internal ledgers. We have

RPC nodes that have gone back to the 1970s that also allow networks to communicate across each other's networks and update internal ledgers in some form. Now we have public blockchains which are public ledgers that are getting updated in real time. Those have many sorts of communications across them. Whether it's at the block building stage to the batches uh all the way to crosschain communications. All of that is getting moved across different networks to allow other ledgers to to update. now they're public ledgers. Um,

so there's a lot of cyber risk in that that that I think there's opportunity to be managing, but it's it's opportunity to manage it in a way that can keep people far far safer than collecting PII, sorry, personal information of people uh, and just moving it back to switchboard operators that could then be exploited. And one one last quick point on that just actually almost crashed uh Perplexity AI the other day looking up how many people have been victimized from from banks uh losing their personal

information over the last 5 years. It it spun for about 20 minutes and then came up with about hundreds of millions and that's all it could do. And I think this is one of the reasons why at Fininsen when we were developing the 2019 guidance, we also did an initiative on privacy-enhancing technology with the concept that we have to factor not just the victims of ISIS in it, but the victims of the hundreds of millions of people who are also victimized when this information isn't taken care of. And the

reason to bring in privacy-enhancing technology was that there are so many ways that we can do an exclusion proof that determines that someone's not on an OFAC list without sending their personal information around. And I think that's the that that type of zero knowledge proof that can determine what is the activity that's happening here. What is it a bot loading up? Most of these bots that are causing some of these intrusions do not have a social security number. And actually, we don't even care

who they are. We're not going to extradite Lazarus Group. we see the activity and we can stop it. And that goes back to the activity based sort of risk management that Rebecca was talking about. Peter, real quick, this is a a statistic we've quoted a number of times. The DOJ in 2012 um found that u identity theft accounts for double the amount of economic losses to individuals than all other forms of theft combined. So it perplexity AI struggles with quantifying it and it is huge and and I would love

to talk about identity more later. Just just real quick for Michael before um I move on and and Jill I'm going to come to you next with a question but in terms of Michael what you were saying do you see that risk as a all of government cross financial services and beyond? Do you see do you have a particular view as to what the SEC's role would be in that? Yeah, I think the SEC has a has a tremendous opportunity to to to actually when they're thinking through this cost benefit analysis to be factoring in both

the risk of whether it's market manipulation or that someone is well actually a great example is is someone an accredited investor. We don't need to send around everybody's information to determine that. That's a that's a pretty basic proof. uh in fact joined Espresso Systems back in the day with Jill uh and and one of the things that they were developing uh that inspired me to join them was zero knowledge proof rappers that could they could verify threshold proofs of whether somebody was say an

accredited investor whether they were over 21 at this at transaction speed. Um, and I and I'll just one aside on that. As as a former prostate prosecutor and someone who worked with victims with domestic violence, I remember talking to to to victims of domestic violence who would go in to buy a beer at a store and go up to the checkout and they have to show their identity. You have to show everything about yourself in order to buy buy a beer. And so whoever that is who happens to be at that door at that

checkout is seeing where you live, everything about you when all we need to know is you're over 21. And I think that's the sort of piece that we were looking at at Fininsson in particular to say there's a lot of risks here. There's ways to do this that protects people. And I think SEC is in a position particularly with the volume that that wants to come on to these public ledgers to say when we do that costbenefit analysis, it's going to be here's other ways to manage this risk that that that

takes in everybody's pain points, but also what is the tech that can be used to solve all of this. uh particularly factoring in and I I'll I'll wrap up with this but I think factoring in that we are in a stage of of hyperfast data transport now and so it's not we're not in a a situation where a bank SAR officer can wait for the TX to come in get printed out look at it send something up determine if that person's a me member of Lazarus it's bots moving at a speed that that are faster than

people can detect and that's a chance for us to leverage all the different activity based risk detection that's much faster than a person. Uh in fact, Chair Atkins mentioned car manufacturers. There was a a study of over uh 200 billion miles worth of autonomous vehicles with autonomous uh risk detection. Over the 200 billion miles with when a car had the autonomous risk detection, the property damage went down 88% and the bodily damage went down 92%. And I think that's this that's the

place that we're in right now is that SEC has a position to as we bring 200 billion miles worth of trading on chain to use this activity based detection that's going to reduce bodily injury but not create more victims by sending PII around. I think that's an incredible opportunity. Jill. So, as been a common theme for the afternoon so far is the ways in which not that there aren't complexities and lots of things to to think through from a variety of different angles and vantage points, but

the opportunity that decentralization DeFi affords. Not to say there aren't risks, but the opportunities as well where you can kind of bottom line it as again was mentioned um earlier in various of the commissioners and the chairman's remarks in terms of peer-to-peer transacting. And if you kind of broaden the lens on peer-to-peer transacting, one of the lessons from economic history outside the context of blockchain and DeFi and decentralization is is we can get people who don't know

each other to transact. that can create opportunity for economic growth, prosperity, inclusiveness and a lot of good can come from that. The question is is what the institutional frameworks that allow that that allow that to happen. Here there's a technological framework that seems to have as promised that potential. And yet at the same time when it comes to markets, if you got a market over there and a market over there and a market over there and a market over there, there's something that can be

said for that fragmentation in terms of competition. And at the same time it may be hey if you can get those together there may be additional opportunities in terms of liquidity and breadth of the market depth of the market what have you and how does all that how does all that happen does it happen organically going back to some of Eric's comments or does it happen as a function of regulatory requirements that tries to stitch uh different marketplaces together which all leads to from a technological

perspective questions around interoperability and how technologically can different chains and activities etc be stitched together. So, with with that windup, and feel free to challenge any of any of the windup, but but with that in mind, what are your thoughts? Yeah, thank you. Uh, my name is Jill Gunter. I'm co-founder of a company called Espresso Systems, and we are working on exactly that, how multiple different chains or venues for settlement uh can work together more seamlessly uh in the

blockchain native environment. Um as I reflect on the question and in particular thinking about the benefits that can be brought uh to whether it's consumer investors more institutional investors with the technology that many of us on this stage have been developing over the last decade I'm struck by all the potential that still remains but also all that's been delivered already. Um I first got into this space when I was working on Wall Street. I joined Goldman Sachs on their credit trading

desk shortly after 2008. Uh talk about a regulatory environment. Um as the junior person on the desk, I was tasked with understanding a lot of the DoddFrank uh regulations that were coming down the pipeline and working closely with compliance. And it was in that context that I first heard about Bitcoin and also the concept of smart contracts. And it struck me at the time how so much of what I was dealing with in my day-to-day, whether it was uh the wrote processes of clearing and settlement that were still extremely manual that

again slid down the hill uh to the junior kids on the trading desk to deal with or whether it was the processes of figuring out just how much leverage was in the system. All of this felt like it had the potential to be obviated by bringing things onchain in a way that could be transparently audited in real time while also enabling the protections of privacy that Michael touched upon earlier. Fast forward to approximately 10 years later and FTX, a centralized exchange in crypto, collapsed. And I will never forget sitting behind

my desk watching the various DeFi monitors that I had up and watching liquidations happen in an extraordinarily orderly process amongst all of the DeFi protocols. DeFi stood up and while the FTX collapse as someone who'd built their career in this industry felt like a catastrophic failure, watching DeFi hold up under the pressure that it was under was an extraordinary experience uh as someone who'd gotten into the space for that promise again a decade prior. And so as I think about the benefits, one of my great hopes for

the SEC and the other regulatory bodies in DC is that we not just focus on the risks, and there are indeed very real risks to consumers that come with the new technology, but also the potential that it brings to transform these markets. One thing that I want to highlight uh based on the question that you asked, Troy, is that blockchains are no longer monoliths. 10 years ago, they were. It was Bitcoin, it was Ethereum, maybe a handful of other systems. And those systems acted in a monolithic way. If you built

something on Ethereum, there was the application and there was the underlying Ethereum blockchain. Now, they function in a very modular way. And so, you're not just building on Ethereum. You're building on perhaps an interoperability layer like what I'm working on. You're building on different data availability systems. you might be using different privacy protocols and I think that it's very important in any of the guidance or rule making that moves forward over the coming months to bear that in mind that

in many cases it's not the case that you can pinpoint uh a locus of whether control exists or does not either at the application layer or within the blockchain. a much more complex approach is needed to understand where points of control might exist by founders or creators of these protocols uh and where points of control no longer exist and there might be many different components of the system under scrutiny uh that lie on different points of that spectrum. So that's a conversation that I hope that

we get into. Joe, just one quick followup. As a practical matter, how important is interoperability? Oh, I think it's critical because it will exist no matter what. Markets uh I I believe I stand with Eric and I say that markets are emergent and they will evolve on their own whether any of us in this room like it or not. And in our increasingly digital and global world, markets will find ways to collide. And so whether we allow them to collide and work together and interoperate safely, securely with appropriate disclosures to

consumers who might be using them uh in those ways or whether we have to force them to collide in more chaotic ways uh or force those interactions between them underground or into spaces that don't have disclosures. It's going to happen. Uh and so I think it's absolutely critical that we as technologists build the systems to allow that interoperability to happen safely, securely while still meeting the standards that consumers expect and that uh you all as regulator regulators and overseers of the system uh create

frameworks that are conducive to that. Omid, I can see you. Okay, I was looking down at the other end. So, if I got this right, and I think I do, you wrote a book with a very interesting title, Rearchitecting Trust after the colon, the curse of history and the crypto cure for money, markets, and platforms from a couple of years ago. So, three related questions here piggybacking on that. What do you mean by rearchitecting? What do you mean by trust? and what is the ill that crypto cures. So, first uh thank you for having me and

it's so great that these events have been taking place. Um I spent for anybody who's written a book know that you usually have the title that you want to use and then your editor and publisher tells you that you can't use it because uh it's not going to lead to enough clicks on Amazon. Um, but I did uh stick to my grounds on something related to architecture because I think crypto is actually a very rare opportunity to change the architecture of finance in a fundamental way and for

the better obviously, but a lot of what other people consider financial innovation has been very iterative over the years and the core infrastructure might be mostly digital now, but the architecture of it is actually the same as the analog era. right? Like and we still call it a wire transfer uh which goes back to the invention of the telegraph. Um so my interest in crypto is actually how we can achieve the goals that finance has been moving towards for centuries but to do it in a fundamentally different way because of

these new tools like cryptography and consensus mechanisms and even developments and mechanism design. Um so that was the impetus for the title. Um the problem it solves is that I think traditional finance some years ago sort of hit the limit of what it could achieve. And I think it's important not to dismiss that. There is a tendency within the crypto industry to treat quote unquote tradi um as just being bad. But we would not have the modern successful economy that we do in America if it wasn't for the very robust

financial markets that we have and the banking system that we have. And that wouldn't be possible without both the institutions and the regulators that got us here. Um but the problems of that system are becoming increasingly apparent especially in a global digital economy. Mainly almost none of it runs continuously. It is designed to sometimes present the uh like the veneer of continuous operation but the actual settlement is often done with significant delays um to the system is not transparent at

all. Um this is one reason why trady needs to be heavily regulated because otherwise it's practically impossible to know what's going on inside of it. Um and then three it is extremely fragmented. Um there are many databases in trifly and they almost never directly talk to each other partly because a lot of the systems are national and not designed for an international economy. So to me the rearchitecture opportunity is sort of start from the first principles of what do we all agree is good. We all agree that continuous

operation is good. We agree that transparency is good. We agree that interoperability is good. And then with crypto in general and DeFi in particular, how do we use these new tools to achieve all of the goals that we've been working towards for a very long time? Where does trust fit in just to zero in on that word and how and how do you think about trust in the context of all the things you just mentioned from a more technological perspective? So trust to me is the only product of the financial services industry. Like at

the end of the day when we we talk about banking, we talk about capital markets, securities, raising money, trading things. But if you zoom out, and this is something that I'm forced to do because I have to teach a class on this. What is it that all of these institutions provide? What's the product or service? It is trust. that for lenders and borrowers and buyers and sellers and entrepreneurs and operators, uh there are certain guaranteed outcomes that you get from the fairly esoteric world of

money and finance. And we've had one model of how we've achieved it historically, which is that we have these institutions that show up and say, "We're going to do it." Then regulators come and say, "Well, we need you to do it well because when you fail, it it's worse than almost any other industry failing." Um and usually there are rules they are handed to the intermediaries and they're asked to please follow them and then if they don't there are certain

penalties that are entailed uh with crypto part of the rearchitecture thesis and this is the point that some of the other panelists have made um we could use code and cryptography to lead to certain guaranteed outcomes and that's something that's never really been possible before Kevin. So glad you were jumping in because I was I was coming to you uh next, but let me just te up a bit. This may be where you're going in any event. So you two have a book um more than one, but the one I'm going to call out is the

blockchain and the new architecture of trust. So similar questions in terms of architecture in terms of in terms of trust. Um, but you also have kind of a broader purview in terms of being professor of legal studies and ethics at Wharton. And so as you think about these themes that Omen was talking about and that have featured in other commenters um comments, what's your take on trust on architecting and in particular what it means in terms of how we think about the regulatory environment in

terms of what's warranted to regulate and then the how you regulate it in light of what really are um you know fundamental differences in terms of the technology. and what it allows and what it may mean and and how things get done and less dependence on intermediaries. Again, picking up on what and others have said. Sure. Thank you very much. Uh it's a pleasure to be here. Uh I was last in this room in in 2019. I said 2018 to Commissioner Pur, but uh the SEC had a fintech forum. I guess they couldn't

call it the the digital asset or or blockchain or crypto forum back then, but you know, we were not yet talking about DeFi. We were talking about many of these same issues. uh and that's one thing I want to start on they're they're challenging issues. I think it's important to discuss the importance of innovation and and the value of not being too worried about risks but uh the reality is when we get into these issues there are risks and there are better and worse ways to address these issues and

we need to think about them uh which I know we're starting to do in this discussion. Yeah, I wanted to jump in. Um when Odin was talking about um trust um I think I have a very simple definition of trust and it's important to understand trust is not certainty. Um in fact trust is something that happens in the absence of certainty. If I am absolutely 100% certain of what's going to happen I don't need to have any trust. Um and this gets to I think I take issue somewhat with what Eric was

suggesting about smart contracts being perfect regulators. Um they are perfect to the extent that software is perfect. uh and we know that software is imperfect. Uh there may be errors, there may be hacks. Uh it may be that uh what we think we are telling the software to do is not what we are actually telling the software to do. It may be that when the software gets out in the world, it will interact in ways that we didn't anticipate and therefore will not produce a a result that we uh anticipated. Same set of issues we're

dealing with uh in the AI context with issues of alignment and so forth. So trust is about situations where we need confidence despite vulnerability. That that's really all it is. It's the environment where actors are confident in moving forward and taking a risk, taking a leap of faith despite the lack of absolute certainty. And to some extent, I think that's what regulators are trying to do. They're trying to facilitate markets. Uh and it's true markets will go where they want to go,

but where they want to go may not be uh what's ultimately in everyone's best interest. Uh United States capital markets are the best and deepest and in many ways most innovative in the world, not because they're the least regulated, but because we have a history of a very effective regulatory structure. And I think that's where we need to start with DeFi. And so on the question of trust, what I talk about in the book is that trust has architecture, trust has structures. And I won't go into all the

details, but all the traditional trust structures, even though they're still valuable and useful today, have reliance on some central actor. It might be a counterparty. It might be the government as a backs stop. It might be some intermediary. Uh, and those are still valuable mechanisms of trust. They produce efficiencies and other kinds of social benefits. But there are limitations. Uh, and blockchain is a new kind of trust that does not get rid of the need for trust. causes trust to be diffused in different kinds of actors

and different kinds of activities but eliminates the idea of a central uh locus of trust a central one central point of failure or administrative control over the system. uh but then when we get to this regulatory question we need to ask what's actually happening and what are our concerns uh and I think one can start with looking at uh the text of uh the securities laws but the reality is capital markets today look nothing like they did in the 1930s they look nothing like they did probably in

the 1970s or 1980s we've had tremendous unbelievable technological innovation and change and so for example Rebecca is right that uh what it means to have a multi say contract for emergency suspension of a of a deep protocol is different than what a circuit breaker is uh in equities or other capital markets today. But those are both mechanisms of dealing with a real problem which is in these complex adaptive markets we have things like emergent harms. We have things like flash crashes happening

which is something that maybe didn't happen uh in the 1930s. Lots of other things happened in the 1930s. Um, and so we need to think about what are the mechanisms consistent with both our ideals and our legal structure to address them. And so I think we need to come back and start with the concerns. And you know, Rebecca earlier on mentioned several concerns about DeFi. Um, my group, the Wharton Blockchain and Digital Asset Project did a report on DeFi in 2021, actually two papers with the World Economic Forum. One's called

DeFi Beyond the Hype. One's called DeFi Policymaker Toolkit. And in the toolkit, we go through six broad categories of risks uh and start to unpack how we might think about they don't all call for regulation. I'll just list them and then stop. But we should think about what do we need to do and what can we do most effectively in ways that have the minimum cost to innovation and and to our values. Uh things like freedom of speech as Peter uh described um how to address them in the best possible way.

We talked about financial risks. There are risk to investors in participating in these markets. various kinds of financial risks. There are technical risks which I think is largely what's being described here under the rubric of cyber risk. But remember these are all software systems in DeFi and blockchain. So everything at some levels is cyber risk but there certainly are vulnerabilities and attacks uh and issues in the coding of the software. There are operational risks, things like key management, things like governance.

Um there are legal risks in terms of these systems being used for illicit purposes. And there are emergent risks, things like flash crashes and and flash loans. and so forth um that are novel kinds of results of interacting systems. And so I think what should regulators do? They should go through and cate catalog the risks and then identify the appropriate ways consistent with the law to address those risks um that are the most advantageous and then to the extent that the law does not allow for that

think about how the law needs to change. Great. So I'm going to go to Michael Jordan and then um Gabe. Everybody chuckles when I say Michael Jordan hair. But anyway, I'm gonna go to Michael in in a minute. And then Gabe. But Eric, I don't know if there was anything you wanted to say. Um if not, that's okay. But if there's anything you wanted to say um in light of some of the comments from Kevin. Yeah. Uh you're right. I shouldn't have said perfect. Um that's fair. I think what's

important here is is not that um that the smart contracts are perfect regulators but that they are a step function improvement over um over human regulators. Frankly, uh a famous or a wise person once said that America is special because it is a nation of laws and not of men. Um this is an appeal to the rule of law. Basically, the idea that a society that can move to a um nonarbitrary form of rule is better than one that is based on the arbitrary whims of any human. Um, some people are good, some people are

bad, many people are bad and they think they're good, but no matter what, we're all subjective humans and we make mistakes and we're we're squishy in our in our points of view. Uh, smart contracts are not squishy. They execute exactly according to the code and when there is a problem as there often is uh you can patch it, you can fix it, you can upgrade it and um you can know a priority how the system will actually operate. You can never do that with with men with human regulators. Um this is a

step function improvement and so far from being uh a tool of of anarchy uh cryptocurrency, blockchains, DeFi should be seen as a tool of um ultimate order. And that's a very different kind of perspective I think that is worth noting. So before getting to Michael um Rebecca just very briefly um I want to pick up on something that Omid and Kevin both said but um Omid had said trust is the only product of the financial services industry and I think even with the heavy regulation we have on the financial

services industry both via the SEC and the CFTC and the numerous other regulators that we have in the US which is very different than other systems around the world. I think there is very little trust in the financial services industry and Bitcoin was born of that lack of trust in many ways in that to Eric's point, we need laws because humans do all have subjective judgment. We all are coming from different interactions and different backgrounds. And one of the ways to architect this trustlessness that we find in DeFi and

to pick up on what Jill said that even in the case of uh unanticipated events uh large volatility, DeFi code or smart contracts will continue to operate as intended as long as it was tested and alike in the right way. And so while I agree that one of the best things we can do as Kevin said is to look at all the different risks, I think we have to take a step back and look at the source of risk. Because even if a risk is user loss, where it comes from may be very different than in the traditional

securities markets, which is errors in human judgment or holding on to data. And I think most regulators around the world have said this is a complex question. We cannot uh solve it in the way we're used to. And even some of the French credential regulators have put together private French-only working groups to try to figure out this DeFi question and have put out even sandboxes to say, well, we could do cyber um assessments and greenlight certain types of uh DeFi protocols to give users the

information they need to be able to have the trustlessness to engage in DeFi. So, so, so Michael, I'm gonna I'm gonna just frame up what Rebecca was saying for a sec. I think it'll probably be something we come back to and then Michael I'll come to you with a question. So I think Rebecca to to what you were saying if I got it right and just to build on you got and others are making similar points right you got the risk what what is it what's the nature of it what have you but then you have the whole another

cascade of questions that then flow from that if I'm hearing what again a number of folks are saying which is for example among other things you got the risk what's the nature of it what's the magnitude of it h what are the how would you regulate it if you wanted to regulate it effectively at what cost? What are the trade-offs associated with trying to regulate it, whatever it is, in a particular way or another? And then you have another question which maybe we'll kind of park for now, come back to later if folks

want to, which is even if you find answers and say you get to the end of that list of questions, there are other comp other questions that you could tease out. You get to who ought to be the one regulating it, right? So that's yet a whole another question and that can be a function of regulatory expertise. It can also be a function of just statutory authority which of course that can change in terms of what legislative action there may be. So the the who ought to regulate I think is a really just important question. The

authority question, the expertise question that itself can be difficult to answer as if all the other questions were somehow easy. Those are difficult too. But then you have the who ought to regulate it which um which has its challenges in terms of just trying to zero in on what the right answer what the right answer is. But um Michael, feel free at this point to comment on anything because we've talked about a lot of stuff, but I was interested in something very specific because you've

have a lot of experience on the investing side of things. And so when you're investing and and working with those who are investing, you need to think about a whole host of things that are going to speak to whether or not this particular opportunity, this particular business has long-term success that on a risk adjusted basis is worth allocating capital to as compared to whatever the next best alternative happens to be. And there's a lot that goes into to that. Part of that, of course, is is just flat out what's the

business opportunity. On the upside, part of that is what's the risk environment look like and then part of that is what's going to be the risk management, the compliance requirements and then to what extent does that actually hinder the ability to achieve the upside. Right? So you kind of figure all that stuff out. doing that in this particular context where there's all the the questions that the panelists have raised the comments from the commissioners and chairman Atkins how do you factor that in in terms of the

investing yes don't in this particular project whatever it happens to be and then relatedly is there a particular something the SEC could do that would make at least that calculus an easier calculus another way to put that is to ring some of the uncertainty out of it. So at least you have a better sense as to what it is that you're investing in both in terms of the opportunity as well as the associated risks. Uh a multi-dimensional question, but I'll start with a talk we gave at our

research conference that said that tokens are broken. We think that tokens are broken for investors, for founders, for users of DeFi systems. And the reason they're broken is something the SEC can help us with, which is right now it is more profitable to listen to user demand. We have a founder of a great protocol here. He is competed by people willing to take shortcuts and the shortcuts are things the found that users want him to do because it's cheaper, faster, and simpler. We have created an environment that makes it

harder for the teams to do it the right way. What we need to do is create a golden bridge that everyone crosses. That is where the best capital, the best founders, and the right set of outlines for what you're going to do if you want to access this market live. The way we can do that is reacting to the common pattern we've seen in this industry of we have a new demand for use. Someone wants to do something, our technology is not quite ready for it. we have to make a compromise. It's too complicated to

store your private keys. So, you give it to someone else that someone else doesn't do what they're supposed to do. A lot of leverage builds up and we have a crisis and we have to remedy it. In our view, the right way to do this is to give the good actors like Jill and like Stanie the equivalent foot to compete with people who do not follow the same rules. And so, the market does not know the difference between a lemon and a peach. And the goal of good regulation should be to help people like us price

those and market those correctly. You have a concrete example or a concrete something that'll a concrete thing that happens. Eric talked about this a little bit. Crypto systems are perfectly verifiable and audible. We have no issues with that and people like me get on stage and broadcast that. The problem is what happens outside the protocol. There are market maker agreements where people will pay for transaction volume that are not legible to the market. The market can't synthesize that information and

price that that is incentivized activity versus what looks like natural activity. Those off-chain agreements need to be disclosed if someone wants to participate in them in our market. Does that one last question then I'm gonna come Gabe um to you. So just um Michael one last question on that. You use a word that is coming up a lot um on on in the discussions which is activity or activities. So from what you describe, would you agree and I don't want to speak for Rebecca but in terms of what I believe she was saying by way

of the activities based approach and tell me if I'm mischaracterizing in any way um that that's the right way setting aside what any particular regulation should or shouldn't be. setting aside what any particular risk warrants additional regulation setting all those big questions to the side just as in terms of an overall approach would you agree with the perspective that some have expressed focus on activities as a way to think about it wherever that wherever that leads it's the only way to

do it the reason is the technologist like myself former software engineer will come up with a new way to provide the activity if we regulate the technology if we regulate the agreement someone will circumvent it. It's about the activity. What you're seeing in DeFi today, there's a market called Hyperlid that is dominating market share. They're making changes to their software to make it more performance because users want more performance. We need to make sure users understand what they're using and why.

And you cannot do that by any other way than what is the action activities being offered by the platform. Gabe. So once again, given that we've covered a lot of territory, feel free to respond uh and react and and build on anything that's been said, but one of the things that I thought I'd tee up here is is as I understand it, that you you yourself spent a lot of time thinking about innovative legal frameworks that get at all the things that have been a focus of discussion here um here today. So what

are some of those innovative legal frameworks in some sense picking picking up on a lot of the different point picking up on a lot of different points that have been made. Some of which are about regulatory frameworks. Some of which are about risk. Some of which are about opportunity. Some of which are about technology. Some of which are about just kind of a different mindset and construct with which to even engage the discussion which is not you know easy when we have a very established frameworks and constructs for how

regulatory regimes have been have been built. So in some sense easier said than done but as somebody like yourself who thinks squarely about that how to innovate these sorts of legal and regulatory constructs I presume it's also the case kind of organizational constructs as as well which you can think of as a form of regulation even if it's not rules and regulations and statutes and law organizational structure has a way of channeling behavior etc activities and the like. So what are what are your thoughts? Yeah

sure. So, um, yeah, I think we're starting to get into the weeds a little bit. A lot of the conversation's been very high level, but I think, uh, you know, the devil's in the details, and I like the devil. Um, the, uh, uh, there's a few things I would say. I mean, I absolutely agree with everything everyone has said. Yes, you have to look at, you know, there's the there's the system and then there's the roles of various people acting on it. But we have just had many years of uh lawsuits and

other things around facts and circumstances based tests namely the Howie test. And I think that uh no one liked that very much. No one wants to analyze in excruciating detail the facts and circumstances of what everyone is doing on every different system in every different way every single time. So we do have to look at all these things. But the the end goal of looking at those things should in my opinion be to divide things into categories and players into categories and have rules so that people

know where they are. And of course there are always edge cases. Yes, that's why we go to the SEC and we talk to them. We get no action letters or we have uh you know litigations uh to figure out the edge cases. But we should be driving toward rules. And I believe you know there is a difference uh as Michael was saying um you know between a uh a decentralized autonomous system and a system that just happens to be on a blockchain but isn't actually decentralized and autonomous. And we're

going to need in law some recognition of this the where these lines are. They may not be perfect. There may be edge cases but we're going to need it. Now I do think that you know in terms of why why are we doing this? Why does it matter uh which which what is on which side of that line? Well, the reason is that um the uh basically if you do this right, if you have a decentralized autonomous system, it's not that there's no trust in no one and that no people are involved or it's this you know beautiful

transcendental machine. uh but rather you don't necessarily have to trust your direct counterparty and the things that you are trusting in generally are not individual people's discretion or that they are good people or whatever but it's rather their incentives and their powers, right? Um, and so what what regulation should do and what legal constructs should do is help support this help support this wonderful feature because if uh the United States and North Korea can transact on a blockchain

or if two uh uh powerful corporate competitors can transact on a blockchain uh where typically they would have to use uh you would have to put millions and millions of dollars into a bank escrow and they would worry what country is the escrow in? does the does the president of that country know the president of that bank uh or whatever. You don't have to do that anymore. You do it on the blockchain and you can just trust in a broadly distributed geographically diverse group of validators incentives and their very

limited powers, right? Um so the way that law can support this is a few things. Number one, there are some things that aren't on chain as Michael was talking about. There are market maker agreements. There may be uh agreements between the validators of a protocol and the labs company or foundation of a protocol where they're getting subsidized in certain ways. That is very important information to everyone to know because that that changes their powers and incentives potentially, right? So we need a notice

and disclosure regime that captures these potential conflicts of interest or these potential off-chain things. Number two is many many things are trust minimized by the systems themselves, right? Uh but there are some things that that are not trust minimized by it. Rebecca mentioned the uh uh the case of a of of a multisig, an emergency multisig that can stop a protocol and that that could be very trust minimized like maybe you you the only thing you can do is you can stop the trading and you can turn it into withdrawal only

mode but there's no way that this uh multi-IG can um uh can withdraw the money. Well, still nevertheless, uh there could be uh that that multi-IG could just uh just de you know, it's only supposed to be for emergencies and hacks. Um uh but maybe uh a government just really doesn't like the protocol and it it sends everyone an order to just stop it because it doesn't like it or because one of its enemies is transacting on it, right? And so uh uh there can be um you there should be some

legal arrangements still that say okay you're supposed to be an emergency mot let's define emergency let's define what you will disclose your conflicts of interest let's define uh is there some procedure that perhaps can happen where instead of doing something bad that people have been told to do they just resign from it and and control reverts to the doubt right so you know I call these things cybernetic organiz ations aka Borgs where basically you have a mix of legal protections and smart contract

protections. In that example, the smart contract protection is that there's not very much they can do to the protocol. They can turn off the trading and they can turn it into withdrawal only mode. That would be a smart contract protection. And the legal protection would be uh the procedure whereby they you define what an emergency is, when they're supposed to act, and when they're not supposed to act. Right? So I I I I do think that law has an important role here in sort of bringing out the

best of this technologies capabilities to allow potential adversaries even to still uh commercially transact. So So Gabe, I'm going to ask a quick followup of you and I'm going go to Peter. One, I think Peter has a thought. Number two, I'm going to give Peter the chance to talk about low for low for a moment. But I would encourage everybody else since we've now gotten through and there's already been some interaction. If you want to just catch my attention, wave your hand, what have you, I can get the

queue going. We'll get through what we can in the next 15 minutes or so before the break and then we'll pick up on it as well as with the benefit of um the audience and their uh input after the break. So feel free to get my attention if there's anything you want to talk about. Hopefully there is. I'll create the list. But Gabe, real quick and then and then Peter um to you. So in terms of what you're saying kind of the cybernetic um construct that you just mentioned for the SEC so I'm sitting back as a

putting my former hat on like all right that's really interesting stuff so now what do I do right so we just got to just get to that very bottom line question particularly when you think about it from the perspective of the SEC's authority and and to the extent part of the answer is hey these are really interesting things but they're really for somebody else you know whatever your thoughts are but I think that would be useful to see how what you say kind of translates for agency agencies like the SEC or perhaps other

financial regulators, right? Um, it's the the SEC fundamentally has a disclosure mandate. Um, and I think that is a very very powerful innovation. I realize people in crypto currently think it's very bad, but at its core, and there have been many things, look, there have been many things that make it uh perhaps not ideal because there have been layers and layers of things where it's creeped from a a a disclosure regime into somewhat of a conduct regulation regime, right? Like if you uh

uh start you know you force everyone to do environmental disclosures that can end up being a conduct regulation because they don't like the things they would have to disclose as a result of that and so they change their conduct but at its core and then there's things like Sarbain Oxley which are have so many layers of auditing and certifications and controls these would be completely inapplicable to crypto right but if you just go back to the core intuition that in investors and other types of operators should have all

material information that they would want to have to reasonably make intelligent decisions about things. There are not everything in crypto is on chain, right? And so you have to look at where the potential conflicts of interest, where are the rooms for collusion, where are the ways people could break these systems uh and require disclosure around those. Uh that would be enormously useful. And I think that that's really all you you don't need to regulate conduct that much. And the other thing would be to recognize where

the information is already transparent. It's already on chain. Then you don't don't go and require redundant disclosure because everyone can already see that, right? And so it is different, but it's a disclosure mandate and the SEC would be good at that. Peter, the initial thought I had is that I mean we're we're not going to want say an emergency on a particular specified escape hatch multi-IG contract to be something that the SEC defines, right? This would be a this would be a mess of

a rulemaking that I can only imagine the kind of feedback we get from a public comment process. What you want is an emergent order here where people feel comfortable disclosing exactly how they want to set up their system and making very clear to the user how they're going to set up their system such that when they betray those expectations, you can pursue fraud claims against them. Now, an interesting question is, can we just use typical fraud jurisdiction? Do we want to use the SEC's anti-fraud

jurisdiction? And are there issues with things that aren't swept into that that would there still be things left on the table? And so, you know, briefly, I put in my two cents. I think when you have a a new emergent marketplace with new actors who are doing new and novel things, you actually want more of an organic regulatory model where people can define their own terms and then can be prosecuted for fraud, for failure to live up to those terms. You don't want a prescriptive regulatory regime where

people are forced to fit into buckets that have been defined Xanti by a regulator. Even if that regulator is very smart, they're going to be shortsided with respect to all the many flowers that will bloom in that world. And so, you know, briefly to try and bodgege this together to with what I wanted to say about SEC versus low is you have an example of first amendment juristprudence here where, you know, we have to figure out where the line is between conduct that we can require a license for or registration

for Xanti versus conduct that you're going to be allowed to do even if it generates risks and we will only police you after the fact. So, Low is um this disgraced investment adviser who starts he loses his right to be an investment adviser, which is a regulated professional conduct category by the SEC. And instead, he decides to start publishing a newsletter for like 25 cents a page. And in the newsletter, you'll find all of Loe's best stock tips. And it just so happens that Lo gets money from the people who issue

these garbage stocks and then profits off of having them in his newsletter. But the newsletter is just something that anyone can buy. And this case stretched the SEC's jurisdiction right up to the First Amendment in a way that's hopefully fairly obvious in that the SEC said, "No, you're still an investment adviser. We told you you can't do that anymore. You're supposed to register and you're actually banned from doing this because you did it so badly before." Ultimately, when this

went all the way up to the Supreme Court and White said, "Actually, I'm free to not White, Lo said, "I'm free to publish uh my newsletter. It doesn't have personal advice in it to clients. I don't have clients." The Supreme Court ruled in favor of low. Justice White authored the uh the deciding opinion in a concurrence and said, "Look, you know, I'm not endorsing this conduct. Things that get written can be bad, but in this case, this person is engaged in the

publication of speech and figuring out what the difference is between publishing that newsletter that anyone can buy. It's not taking fees, by the way. Um, you know, Commissioner Pur rightly mentioned Ether Delta in the Zack uh Coburn enforcement action where one of the fact patterns was that he could adjust the fee on the decentralized smart contract or decentralized exchange smart contract. Um, it's not just taking fees because Low published this newsletter for a fee and got lots of money from this shady

penny stock people who wanted their stocks in the newsletter. what what White said, what Justice White said in his concurrence is that there's a difference between that neutral publishing activity and regulable conduct where one takes the affairs of their customer in hand and exercises judgment on their behalf. And so if you want a good standard for when suddenly you can be subject to some sort of regulation, I think you're right there. If you take the affairs of the customer in hand by designing an emergency escape

hatch that you describe clearly and then you betray those expectations, you're now engaged in something that looks like conduct that can be subject to regulation and not engage in pure speech. So hopefully I mix those two things together, but Got it. Um, Eric, yeah, I I worry that this disclosure thing is a a bit of one of those good intentions that paves the way to hell. Uh, I don't imagine many of you are happy going to a website and clicking on accept all every single time you visit a

new website because of GDPR compliance. Does anyone believe that that has improved the human experience? Um, no. Uh how many of you when you get a new credit card read through the 15 pages of sometimes capital letters, sometimes bold, sometimes small print um to make sure that you have read all of the regulated uh disclosures provided by the credit card company? You don't. Um these things have a way of snowballing and a much more reasonable civil freedomoriented way to handle this stuff is through the notion of fraud.

Basically, uh, in your example, uh, if a new project is doing some kind of, um, market maker deal, well, if you're going to invest in that project, you should perhaps ask them if they're doing that kind of thing. Ask them. Ask them to affirm something. Ask them to deny something. It can be in a public setting, a public um, message board or or anything like that. They will then have to answer. If they don't answer, maybe that's a red flag and you should stay away from that investment. And if

they answer and then they act not in accordance with their own statements, now that is fraud. That seems like a very appropriate way to actually go after bad actors because they're actually committing fraud. There are too many different types of things that might have to be disclosed for this idea that disclosure should be a regulated um forcing function. It sounds good and it's going to lead to the experience of DeFi and crypto getting much worse. And um I think now is probably the time to

not tread down that road. Why doesn't requiring Apple to do disclosures make the experience of using an iPhone worse? Which disclosures are you talking about? Uh their their 10Ks, their 8Ks, their their SEC disclosures that they make it. It doesn't affect using an iPhone at all. and it does help the market value Apple stock, get ahead of issues, um know that their their financials are accurate. Um yeah, I just I don't quite get it. I have no problem with Apple uh deciding to disclose things because um

huge investors with billions of dollars demand that kind of information, but they're legally Yeah. Yeah. But it's, you know, it's not really scalable for financial markets, right? uh you know part of the reason why the the capital markets the capital equity markets work beautifully is you know every individual investor doesn't go and have to talk to Apple management right it's just it's just disclosed and you know it's also not you know because they're required to

say certain things as you say they must actually say something in order for it potentially to be fraudulent fraudulent uh uh you know everyone has the same information they don't have to go and actually talk to Apple about it and you know everyone's in parody I think there's a certain uh beauty to that now it can't go too far obviously And and there are trade-offs, right? But this is part of why markets work and why, you know, Apple can trade at at great Apple stock can trade at great scale by many

institutions is because we've solved that social scaling problem through law. Everyone gets the same information. Standards of disclosure can absolutely be handled by marketplaces. Like if you're an exchange and you want to be reputable and you want to draw volume to yourself, uh it's in your interest and it's in the interest of your customers for the assets that you list to provide certain information that you think is appropriate. And I think it's not a scary world to imagine that different

exchanges might have different listing requirements. That's okay. It's okay if not everyone does the same thing. It's okay if not everyone is forced into the same regime. And that flexibility, that dynamism is precisely the thing that allows markets to grow and for innovations to happen. There's a lot of uh if you go into this disclosure issue, a lot of the reason that crypto tokens are not securities is because to to uh become a security, registered as a security, they would have to abide by

these disclosures, many of which don't even apply to them. And yeah, I mean, absolutely, you would have to tiller the disclosure regime. I would just leave you with one question and we should probably let move on but one one quick qu one quick question just to think about why why were these disclosure rules invented in the first place. Why didn't in the roaring 20s when it was a very free market? Why didn't all these people get together and just start disclosing these things? Why did we have

to pass a law about it? Just one just a let's let's we can bracket that maybe come back after uh the break if folks think that going down further the the disclosure I mean to the extent disclosure I mean it's interesting because disclosure is often seen as a less burdensome regulatory technique than substantively regulating conduct or activities as such and yet disclosure can be difficult as well to craft a disclosure-based regime that itself is effective in terms of what's disclosed

how it's disclosed when it's disclosed frequently it's it's disclosed and all the rest. So it's it's notable just as a general proposition that while disclosure is sometimes seen as easier than conductbased or substantive uh based or activities based regulation it is by no means easy and part of it is is thinking about from my perspective part of it is thinking about the ways in which those to whom the information is being disclosed actually engage with the information. Does it actually improve

their decision-m or does it frustrate their decision-making in a way where disclosure may prove to be counterproductive? So, it's a complicated it can be a complicated um crafting the right disclosure regimes in any particular context can be complicated. Setting aside this particular context. So, I think there's probably more to come back to on on all of that, but let me uh let me go to Joe. Thank you. As both a consumer of products in the DeFi space and the broader blockchain ecosystem and also a

founder behind some of them, I am strongly motivated by both the value and the value proposition of transparency. And for that reason, I think that disclosures, whether they're mandated from an oversight body or regulatory body or whether they have just become uh industry best practice, I think they're enormously helpful. I'm speaking even from my own personal experience as a consumer. As I mentioned earlier, these systems are extraordinarily complicated under the hood. I don't read the 15-page

credit card agreement when I sign up for a new card, nor do I audit my own smart contracts as a consumer when I'm using products. But in both cases, I think the transparency and the fact that there are people in each respective industry who are scrutinizing these transparent details is extremely helpful. It's not an enviable position to be in to either be on the industry side and trying to promote self-regulation or to be at an oversight body to try to walk the line between being overly burdensome

and creating a regime and a set of best practices that people abide by that is actually helpful to consumers. I want to touch very briefly on what I think is at stake on that front. Um, if I was to draw a thread through my career, a common theme has been the great assets that the United States has in terms of being able to attract capital. Both due to the dynamics around its capital markets and due to the power and the strength of the US dollar as a means of savings and of payments. I live in Silicon Valley, San Francisco.

It is the hub of innovation globally. Every social network, every AI application that you use, that you have on your phone has been invented there. I am one of a handful of crypto founders left there. I want to emphasize that this was not the case five or six years ago. It used to be a buzzing hub of crypto activity. It is rare these days to come by someone who is still living not just in Silicon Valley but in the United States who is an entrepreneur in this space and it it's due to the regimes that not only the US as a

government and as an ecosystem and as a set of institutions has imposed but it's also due to the challenging aspects that Michael Jordan uh touched upon earlier as an industry ourselves. elves of the practices that have been created. There's been a chilling effect throughout the industry, especially for those doiciled in the United States and especially on the best, most scrupulous actors in the industry. People sometimes say to me and they question, "Oh, you still work crypto? I thought that it

was, you know, just sort of frauds and and bad actors left there." And that's because if it feels like it's illegal to work in crypto, if it feels like you're doing something bad, it's going to drive out those most scrupulous actors either outside of the United States or out of the industry altogether. And that's far too often been the case. And I think that it's critical that we don't create overly burdensome disclosure regimes or other regulatory regimes and further

drive out the good well-intended actors. But I also think it's critical that we have norms around transparency so that those who are trying to create best practices that do protect consumers and retail users and investors can thrive and compete against those who are less scrupulous. All right, so we're at about time for the break so as not to go over and make sure we have the proper break. So here's the game plan. Um, somebody from the commission is going to give a couple of instructions in in a moment for the

queue. I have Omed and Rebecca. There are probably others. So, the others can just come up to me during the break. I'll get the list going. Comments and questions that have come in from uh the audience. We'll fold those into the discussion. And um I guess that's it for now other than a couple of instructions. Hello. It's my last chance at the mic during these round tables. So, thank you for indulging me. I want to thank everyone on the panel. I followed many of you of your work and thinking for so

many of the so many years and I appreciate that those of you have stayed in the US and continued to build. I value your contributions today. You have really defied my expectations. Innovation always feels quick because most of the time by the time we're exposed to new technology, it has already achieved commercial success and scaled. We see the fully baked product and quickly lose appreciation for the process. A lot of the points made today about the American spirit have really resonated with me. Even my elementary

age children understand the promise of freedom that America promises. They remind me on almost daily basis that they can't wait to grow up because once they do, they won't have to ask permission to engage with a technology that we greatly limit in our house. That's right. They can't wait to have permissionless access to ice cream. We take for granted all the innovation that makes ice cream readily available for us. Hand churns, large-scale factories, and refrigeration. The rules

and regulations around the availability of ice cream took decades to standardize and as a result we have a somewhat consistent and delicious ice cream experience. We will now take a short break where we as adults can have as many ice creams as we want. I invite you to go to the lobby and enjoy some ice cream. When we return, the panel will turn to answering questions from the audience. There are note cards available outside that you can fill out any questions that you have or you can submit them as Tori mentioned at

crypto.se.gov. Iliana is here and she can take your cards for from you or I can take them as well and we'll get them to Troy to ask our panelists. So, thank you. Please enjoy your ice cream and see you back here at 3:30. [Applause]

All right, I think we are um ready to go. I heard Peter just say, "I'm glad we solved it." So, we're going to find out in the next uh hour and 20 minutes or so what exactly we solved and what the it uh and what the what the it is here. Um so, anyway, so thanks um everybody for continuing uh with us uh this afternoon. So, as mentioned, we had a number of terrific questions that came in from the audience. We'll fold those in. If you don't hear your exact question posed, it's only because we're

kind of weaving it into the conversation. So, you may not hear it a word for word sort of way, but we're trying to make sure that we're responsive with the time that we have, realizing we don't have a ton of time, but to the great input uh that uh audience members um submitted. So just with that having me said at the outset um as I mentioned I have a queue that's working and encourage any and all the panelists just to raise your hand or otherwise catch my attention if you want to get in the queue but at the same time

I won't be shy about just calling you um if I think uh that you may have something in particular to contribute to whatever was uh was just said or recently uh said. So with that let me start with uh Omid. Yeah two points. First, I thought the disclosure debate was very interesting. And I'm generally pro- disclosure. Um, but I think something to be mindful of for all potential DeFi regulations is that they impose a cost and that those costs really matter, particularly for entrepreneurs. Um, if you spend enough

time in crypto, you start seeing everything through the lens of incentives. And like going back to the point that Gabe was making about Apple making disclosures, if I was the CEO of a large public corporation, I would want there to be very strict and very expensive disclosure requirements because one, it gets to it gives me an opportunity to show off what I'm good at, but two, just the cost of complying creates a moat that prevents entrepreneurs from competing with me. Because if I'm an entrepreneur, I might

like disclosures because I want to show off, but uh with deference to my uh securities lawyers friends here, I might not be able to afford paying someone to help me make those disclosures. And one of the things that to me makes DeFi very special is because public blockchains are this very special kind of infrastructure that does the heavy lifting. The opportunity for entrepreneurship is vast. And that has not been true in financial services for a very long time. Even with fintex and I'm not just talking about the the um

you know just the regulatory capital requirements just like the cost of doing a thing has always been high but we already have very successful DeFi protocols where you just have one person or group of people came up with an idea wrote some code and now it's handling billions of dollars. So, I think it's important to always be mindful that whatever regulations ultimately show up for DeFi, they don't we don't get to the point where the next team of sort of like garage tinkerers say, "Oh, we have

a great idea, but it's going to cost us $20,000 to comply with the disclosure requirements because then that might mean that they might need to go raise money." And raising money as we've seen in this industry before often also creates other incentive problems in terms of like the kind of control that we want to get away from concentration of ownership that we want to get away from. Yeah, you could do thresholds like TVL like you know have certain disclosures at 100 million TVL or whatever you know there's ways to handle

that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, I think in general just to be thoughtful of the fact that what we want is for cost to not be an impediment for future DeFi innovation. Um, and the other thing I wanted to say is references get made in DeFi a lot of times to the importance of preserving peer-to-peer activity because that was the original goal of Bitcoin. But most of DeFi this as you know what we understand to be DeFi within the industry which is this ecosystem of protocols that provide services for trading and lending and so on is not

peer-to-peer. Most of it is peer-to-pool. Uh the proof yet once again that actually historically financial services often organically tends towards intermediation because of operational and capital efficiency. DeFi is that way too. uh if I want to go and earn yield on a stable coin that I own, I don't want to go find somebody else on a blockchain to lend it to. I'd much rather deposit into a DeFi pool where the smart contracts then facilitate some kind of a lending function. So, I think it would be

interesting for all of us up here to then think about how much does the peerto-pool model fit some of the existing rules for intermediaries or are we going to need actually brand new rules for pools and protocols? Can I ask you just one quick question followup and then we got Rebecca in the queue. So just on that point about pool or protocol and you're then related point about intermediaries, activities, what have you I guess activities point from earlier today. Could you say a little bit more just to make folks are on the

same page in terms of how you think about or how one thinks about who I'm going to put this in air quotes controls, influences, runs, manages. You can give a whole host of different words. the pool or the protocol and how that then feeds into or might feed into a determination as to whether or not there is or is not something akin to an intermediary. There's a way to design a DeFi solution where nobody controls anything. You could literally just say here are some lines of code. They have the ability to

hold assets and the code then determines what happens to those assets whether they're traded for other assets or loaned out or whatnot and then the code could be written in a way that nobody could ever change it including by the way if something goes catastrophically wrong. Um, very few protocols are like that, understandably so, because a lot of these are still startups. So, they want to have some time and some flexibility to upgrade, to improve, to build product market fit. Um, and what you gen you

generally don't want a pool that anybody controls. Um, because that's really is decentralization in name only. If whoever controls the code controls the assets, then it's becoming a lot closer to a custodial solution. So the more pressing question is usually how much the actual humans have control over the protocol and what kind of control is there? Is it a multi-IG? Is it token based? Is there voting involved? Uh are there is the code written in a way where whatever control could be exercised over

it has to be done in a slow way over time or can it be done tomorrow? So, as much as I hate to say this, it's a cliche, but in the future, there's going to be a spectrum for all of this because I think the market is going to want a spectrum of solutions. I think the market is going to want a spectrum of decentralization. Um, and it's interesting to think about what role regulators could play in in making sure that a the spectrum exists and then everybody sort of knows what they're getting from using different

solutions. Yeah. And I'm just going to make a quick comment going back to something I think Gabe had said before and then Rebecca I'm going to turn to you and and just Omen as you were referring to across the spectrum. One of the challenges and I think this was something Gabe said and Gabe if I got there get this wrong you can correct me was about drawing the lines. Where where do you draw the lines and and as simplistic as it is from a regulatory perspective um or legislative perspective even a judicial perspective

is is where do you draw those lines? Lines that determine what people can do. lines that determine what people can't do. That's no easy task because you do that in the context of imperfect information. You never know everything about how everything could in fact play itself out. And you have your policy goals and objectives. Going back to some of Peter's comments, you also have your constraints that you want to operate subject to whatever those constraints may be. And then you say, "All right,

well, I'm not going to get exactly perfect given goals, objectives. How do you optimize? So, am I willing to be underinclusive in terms of achieving the goal? overincclusive the overincclusiveness underinclusiveness practical challenge when you're drawing lines that figures out what's within whose jurisdiction and how is this going to be regulated or not is just a it's a practical challenge it's not a philosophical point it's a practical challenge but Omen what you were saying

has particular resonance in terms of just what that means as things play out over over time and they're all different different points along along the spectrum as you as you put it Rebecca Thanks so much. Uh, so one of the things I'll just build on a few of the things that a number of people up here have said, but um, I get to work with DeFi builders who started in the US and who actually stuck it out the last four years who had many discussions about whether they should leave or not, but

were able to build here and they're very happy that they're here and still building in the US. So in terms of the DeFi and the American spirit question that we're answering today, I'd say at Geto Labs they are building DeFi and infrastructure with the same principles that have driven um American progress in the economic system more generally. So personal liberty, innovation, frontierism. One of the things that I've taken away from being a lawyer in this space and working with a number of DeFi

software developable software developers very early is that you need to understand the technology before you either can give advice about where the law intersects or before you regulate it. And today I think is a great step forward and there have been other agencies uh in the US that have been having these types of roundts about DeFi and I think that those are the most important things we can do right now. Um the European Commission actually put out a report that was authored by IBM Promontory very recently and the last

thing they said was this part of the industry is not ready for legislation yet. The most important thing we can be doing is convening forums between regulators, policy makers and industry to really move forward where we understand what the ecosystem is. And notwithstanding the enormous mind share that DeFi has captured to date, it is still 4% of the crypto ecosystem. And I think you can read any regulatory paper that's come out. there is a general consensus that DeFi is not uh tied to or otherwise integrated into the

traditional financial system. So hopefully it'll not take two years like Lewis and Clark, but I think we do have some time to figure out exactly the right path forward. I do think that disclosure provides a really good basis uh to think about what needs to happen and what people should know when they are taking control of their own assets and uh their own e economic activity. Uh but I think the thing that we have to struggle with in the US that people don't have to struggle with elsewhere is

that we don't have a single financial regulator. So you have the FCA in the UK, you have like Buffin in Germany and there's one centralized financial regulator. So you could say okay we're going to them but here we are grappling with not just one not just two but multiple financial regulators. And so where this disclosure regime should come from, notwithstanding that, you're right, Gabe, the SEC has been at the forefront in many ways on the disclosure question. I just think we haven't even

addressed the predicate issue here today, which is like what part of DeFi necessarily falls within the SEC's jurisdiction. I think we could probably have a whole separate day on that. Um, and that probably gets very very technical, which is, you know, what type of receipt tokens, what do they look like, you know, those kinds of things. But I I'm not just I don't I'm not sure that the SEC necessarily has jurisdiction in such a broad way unless it's granted to them through other

legislation to just say you have to come up with a disclosure framework for crypto more generally. The other thing that I think is important and I think that was mentioned during this panel is much of our financial regulation has grown around the way that financial markets uh were established or as uh problems were identified in financial markets. So when you have these conflict of interest laws and you separate certain actors uh in the derivative space from each other that came about because there were obvious problems in

the derivatives markets um when those rules were put together but the industry in many ways is I wouldn't say self-regulating yet but there is organic work being done to mitigate a lot of the risks we talked about. So something like the security alliance or seal uh which a number of people on this panel are involved in uh is looking for ways to build organic frameworks to combat elicit financial or other bad activity in crypto. Um there are other projects in in the space that are thinking of

solutions to allow for uh more traditional assets to trade within DeFi or onchain. Um uh Michael mentioned that Sikulov was here who is the founder of the A protocol which I would say is one of the uh most important if not the most important D5 protocol in the space. It is also highly decentralized uh in terms of not having control whether it be in its DAO over the protocol or things like that. But back maybe four or five years ago, we did try to architect something called a arc which was like an institutional grade

DeFi and there were ways of finding how to get people to come into work in a DeFi system and I have heard much of that coming back around. So everything old is new again in terms of how we are trying to put forward proposals. But in terms of DeFi, the industry is is working together now. It may not all be um you know talked about every day all day on crypto Twitter. that seems to be something where people are talking about other things but I think the work is being done and so the most important

thing the SEC can do whether it's within their jurisdiction or not is to continue convening people whether publicly or privately to talk about these issues. So I got Michael Moer I got Kevin then I got Michael Jordan but Rebecca before I come to um Michael Moer I want to ask you a kind of a specific question within all of that. So if you think about the SEC, one of the notable regulatory regimes and and regulated entities are broker dealers. So without getting into all the nuts and bolts unless folks want

to at some point around broker dealers and broker dealer regulation and what have you which has variety of different components to it just when you think about broker dealers and the market function they serve in the con in the context of DeFi is the concept of a broker dealer just outdated or does it still maybe not by the label broker dealer but by the kind of fundamental function that a broker dealer serve still have kind of currency within the context of DeFi. I mean that's actually a slippery slope

even if you didn't mean it to be because I think there has been so much discussion about whether website interfaces that provide information about what is happening on chain with respect to a DeFi protocol is a broker right and so I think the term broker broker dealer is extraordinarily loaded when it comes to DeFi but I'd go back to what I think a number of people talked about um when we started this panel which is our SEC regulations and actually all of our financial services regulations are predicated or focused on

persons and the way persons is defined is through natural persons or various types of entities. I think we can also probably go down a path about whether certain types of entities in crypto that may look different or may look decentralized whether they're actually captured in that definition. But putting that side argument aside, I think that in a true or genuine DeFi protocol, um you will not have the type of intermediation that will bring uh the concept of broker dealers back in. And I think you know various types of

frontends, website interfaces, UIs, whatever you want to call them, which are the normal websites you would go to look at, maybe you can, you know, connect your wallet, do not perform the same functions as broker dealers, unless there is serious off-chain activity that is not disclosed where there may be elements of control that you're not otherwise aware of. So, A, it's about the activities and B, it's about the details. Is that a fairation? I feel like that's a great lawyer answer. So

yes, I think the one other thing I didn't say with respect to Gabes and I we did I got a lot of you guys seem to agree a lot when we were out getting ice cream. So I'll say to Gabe like I think the disclosure question then um comes down to who's doing it for how long, right? Because in a not to pick on a but and I don't mean I mean in a positive way like it's so decentralized like is the devco who may be doing some GitHub commits here and there but is otherwise off building other things responsible

for continuing disclosure because then we really are regulating software developers and I would say that's not anybody's goal. Yeah, I agree. I mean, I think well, look, we have a draft legislation in Congress right now that talks about, you know, system maturity, right? And and disclosure obligations potentially ceasing or being reduced at that point or or changing in some way. So, I I do think there's a point where uh these systems can mature and become so decentralized and so autonomous that

that truly, you know, there's no uh natural focal point for that disclosure. Um but uh I would still sort of say that those systems are supported by various types of secondary actors that depending on the context it may be interesting to get disclosure from. So you know an example in the in the A context would be um liquidation bots uh you know people running liquidation bots or things like that. Um there was I mean it doesn't really apply to a because it's actually good and they're good actors but you

know in in in Tara in in Tara there was uh the labs company um you know it had created the blockchain it created various D5 protocols on the blockchain it ran the wallet related to the blockchain uh and it ran the RPC nodes that the wallet feeds into and there was a great expose which unfortunately has been memory hold it's no longer on the internet about how these things interacted to give them a systemic advantage in liquidations on their own uh DeFi protocols and they were raking in profits. So that's a massive conflict

of interest, right? Because it it and in fact liquidations on their on their DeFi protocol were particularly punitive and and they had this they were also running these liquidation bots. So it's it's the kind of thing that people would want to know. So it is but that's a highly centralized system you're talking about. No, it wasn't highly central as a blockchain. It was a completely normal blockchain. I mean calling terod defi I think is maybe one step too far because there was so much control and so I think

that like I agree with you in that instance that where you have these centralized actors who otherwise are controlling an entire but they weren't centralized called themselves decentralized I know what they call I know what they called the point is it's about how you define centralization or decentralization I'm saying you can take a lot of elements that are decentralized in and of themselves the blockchain was decentralized the you know the D5 protocols were just smart contracts blah

blah blah but if you add up a lot of vertical integration in a particular player. I I don't know whether you call that centralization or you just call it vertical integration or concentration of risk but at that point that particular player becomes in effect a trusted entity even within these otherwise independently trust minimized systems. Yes. Yeah. I agree. But I guess the question is like what's the limiting principle in when I and like what the figure Yeah. I mean I can't define that

right now but you know I'm confident you could draw those lines in some some reasonable way. We could find a way. We need more ice cream. I think we're going to come back to a lot a lot of this as the conversation goes. So, I got Joe now in the queue, but Michael Moer, um I think I think part of it just some of this it might be at least taking from a Fininsen perspective and OFAC actually going back to something said about it's going to be a spectrum. I mean, I think part of it is looking at things from a

Finins perspective, it was what is is it total independent control? like we know that there's going to be measures of centralization, decentralization. Um it's not so much about whether it's a centralized, decentralized, whatever it is. It's is there an element of control, what's the activity and who who has control over it. Um and so thinking of it and some of that is just basic commercial terms of if tort and commercial implied warranties of who has the ability to to to stop something bad

from happening that was reasonably foreseeable. Um, so I think some of the like for instance wallet, self-hosted wallets. We looked at multi- signature self-hosted wallets and said you could be a software developer of this. Um, and in fact you could even be a holder of a key of a of a self-hosted wallet. But if if you don't have total independent control, then you shouldn't you don't you are not a money service business that is actually accepting and transmitting. And so I think some of

these activities that we're looking through here including the pools that OMD's talking about there's questions of number one okay who has control over this pool and that control by the is what are the activities the activities could be the ability to let somebody into the pool or it could be the ability to pause the pool if there's a cyber incident or a code incident. Um, and that's where also we want that spectrum. That's really important because you want you don't want to disincentivize people

from being on a security council for instance that if there is a technical and operational risk that that folks have described, you want them to be able to vote in that context and say, I'm pulling the emergency break without taking on liability that you are now a broker dealer or a money service business. And and we dealt with this a lot at OFAC uh the the sanctions arm because there was a period where there was so much disconnect between Iranian sanctions in Europe and Iranian sanction in the US and American uh business

people didn't want to be on boards of multinational companies. But we didn't want to disincentivize disincentivize people from being on a board uh who had great judgment and some had very technical skills like a security council. And we want people to be able to vote. And actually, we see this daily in in legal practice where people are technical experts in security and are nervous about being on a security council to to actually find and and make the judgment call. That's really just a

pause because they're worried, am I if it turns out to be Lazarus in hindsight, have I committed a sanctions violation? If the SEC determines that this pool is trading securities, am I part of part of violating securities laws? And so I think if we look back at what are the types of activities and the types of control then we might be able to create that spectrum that's more about okay you have the ability to initiate stop uh indefinitely deny or divert value maybe you have the different

regulatory obligation. Um but if it's more in an FTC FCC you're just part an implied warranty maybe that's just reasonable foreseeable and it's it's a much more limited so that so that people will serve on security councils. So I'm gonna I'm gonna go to Kevin next in the in the queue, but just real quick if I can Michael ask a quick followup very quickly. So in terms of you you you zeroed in on control from your perspective is control as relevant as you suggest because

with control you can drive influence maybe even determine I'm going to use a broad word kind of outcomes or and maybe it's an and is it because with control that may give rise to conflicts of interest kind of principal agent problems agency cost agency problems which are often in kind broad terms what regulatory regimes are focused on is it because with control you have by extension of that control over information you know things so if it's a disclosure point you have the practical ability is it other things

what's the salience in 20 seconds of of control on on the one hand it seems intuitive I think in many instances but control is not a self-defining concept nor is how do you measure it and nor is why do you care about it I think I think actually I would go right in reverse order there. I think it's it's we have to look back at why do we care about it? So I think a Cisco router controls the communications networks that that might be talking and moving trillions of dollars worth of data throughout the

world, but we don't consider them an ATM. Uh and we don't subject them to the same regulatory situation that we would a regulated regulated entity that can control how value is transmitted even if if it going down causes an issue. AWS going down causes all sorts of problems in the financial economy at large, but we don't consider them a financial institution. And so I think it's it's looking back, okay, what why do we care? We care not because there's a broad general impact and there's there's

probably a critical infrastructure issue around cloud services, but they're not able to individually target a transaction and and divert it or initiate it in a way that goes back to consumer protection on some level. like would this person reasonably have a tort um or an implied warranty that they they that they should have be able to take action from? And then I think from a regulatory perspective, is this something where that person we don't we don't really think they're going to

reasonably be able to take that action and we need to make sure that there's some sort of parameters to protect them around it. Kevin, yeah, that's a great jumping off point. The issue of control is central. It's not just central in DeFi. It's also the question why, you know, why should we not be so concerned that a terrorist organization might be operating a Bitcoin node and and mining because they don't have control over the transactions that are going on on top of the network.

Um, this relates back to something I I wanted to point out that that Rebecca said early on and then we just I think glossed over and I don't think we should, which is the issue of of custody. Uh, and what she said was non-custodial is uh, I believe a non-negotiable element for something being DeFi. Um, I would tend to agree. Uh, and I think that's something that, uh, is is simple and straightforward that, you know, the SEC could could help in terms of defining out. There's a lot of things we need to to talk about in

terms of how to draw these lines. Um, I I pointed out in part because I don't think um, there's necessarily broad awareness of that. Maybe maybe there's disagreement on on this group. I don't think necessarily, but I'm co-chair of a what's called the Global Futures Council on DeFi for the World Economic Forum. Um and this element of non-custodial was a piece of the the definition that that you know the earlier report had included in DeFi. Uh and we had a discussion about it a couple weeks ago and this was

the most controversial topic that there were a lot of participants in this group which is a you know diverse international group of experts uh in relevant areas were pushing back on on whether something can be custodial and still DeFi. Um and you know Mike I think gave a great example that you know a lot of the harms that we are concerned about and that regulation uh exists to address come about when there are actors who have uh custody and have that control. There's other kinds of harms. It's not

all the harms. So I think that's a straightforward one. Um and that leads to the second thing I wanted to say briefly which is something we haven't talked at all about at all yet. Um which is stable coins. Um, stable coins I would say are not DeFi, but stable coins are essential to DeFi because you need money on chain. Uh, and therefore you can't directly use fiat. Um, and stable coins have both enabled DeFi and been enabled by DeFi. But the most um the largest stable coins by far are

custodial. Uh, and in all likelihood if the legislation passes in the US, the only legal stable coins in the US will be custodial. Um, and so I think that raises some questions that that's partly, you know, potentially a challenge to the DeFi model. It's partly an opportunity that some of the issues we may be concerned about, um, like elicit finance or some of the issues in terms of being able to stop transactions maybe could happen um, at the stable coin level as opposed to in the DeFi

protocols. But there are also stable coins that are non-custodial um not even algorithmic but either overcolateralized stable coins um or strategy based stable coins like Athena. So I think this is something that needs to be in the conversation. Last thing I'll say really quickly is I think there's also an opportunity and a a value in regulators doing some scenario planning about where might this go. Um we've heard a lot here about the value of DeFi and you know Jill you know gave a very great example

about the success of DeFi um in the environment after the collapse of FCX. Um there's reason to believe that this is a better way uh to do digital asset trading and that if uh it gets um regulatory clarity that it could dominate the marketplace and I think it's worth thinking about what that means in terms of operation of securities laws. It's also possible if tokenization of uh equities and other securities uh can happen um on digital asset platforms that DeFi could come to dominate all capital markets. Uh and

therefore we should think about what that means. Uh and that doesn't mean regulate it as traditional securities trading ahead of that happening. Um but it means not sticking our heads in the sand uh and not uh sketching out what that could look like and what might be responses to that. And I think now's the time to start asking those questions and doing those scenario plans. Um, so Kevin, so just to pick up on that and then I'll get to Michael J and then Joel and Peter. But Kevin, just to pick up on

on that piece, can you say a little bit about, you know, two opposing scenarios as you see realizing that it depends upon a whole host of things and how they play themselves out, but just the kind of kinds of things that you contemplate is, hey, if that happened, that may be in the good bucket. If this other thing happened that may be in the not so good bucket. Well, let let's you know one scenario is at some point in time the dominant share uh of you know may may maybe you know all securities but uh you

know major asset classes will happen on DeFi platforms and you know one way to interpret that is great um we now have uh a technological solution to many of the problems that cause the need for regulation. Um, one way of looking at that is, um, we've now basically eliminated all of securityurities regulation, uh, without thinking we were doing so. Uh, thinking we were not imposing rules where they don't necessarily apply. Um, and yet the problem still exists. So, I I think it's an interesting and important empirical

question. Uh, how many of the problems can be addressed and what can we look to as these markets grow? Um, and it goes back to what I said before again that that starts with identifying what are we worried about. Are we worried about um financial crime? Are we worried about investor protection? Are we worried about other sorts of things? Uh, systemic risks um of u system failure through interacting agents. Um, and the reason to ask those questions is not because uh we want to say oh there's a

risk so therefore we should stop it. Um but because we want to back out uh there's a risk you know how big is the risk? What can be done about the risk? How do the rules address the risk? what are the pros and cons? What are the the harms that those rules cause? So again, it's just going through that exercise but but not doing it based on the way the world looks today. It's starting from certain end points about how the way the world may look tomorrow. Uh Michael J. Michael Jordan. Awesome. Um our our goal for being here

today as investors is to improve our market that we invest in. And one thing that we struggle with that we'd love feedback on is how to do forward statements in this context. A lot of what we do is invest in invest in early stage technology companies. They make represent representations to us and to the market about what they're going to deliver. It's very hard to hold them accountable for that in this context. It's hard to underwrite an asset when you can't predict its future. And when you have a

live token of an instant price, how do you then hold the people who issued it accountable for delivering the forward statements they're making? It's a it's a very complicated thing. This is not actually an easy problem to solve and it's only going to get worse if what you're seeing from the other asset managers in the world of bringing private illquid securities to retail investors. The amount of information asymmetry in private markets, technical complexity and nuance required to underwrite the security is

going to create a massive issue for people trying to underwrite what's happening today, what statements have been provided and how do we hold people accountable to those statements. Gabe, it looks like you were looking at Sure. I mean, this isn't an unus like a new problem in securities law. Just just to be clear, you know, there's there's been a long if you look at every uh SEC disclosure statement, there's something called a forward-looking dis statements disclaimer at the bottom, right? Um and

so there's rules around that, but what I would say is um you're allowed to disclaim certain forward-looking statements and securities disclosures, and you're supposed to say, "Hey, these are forward-looking statements, but it may not work out and blah blah blah." And generally, people are not liable for that under the securities laws. It's actually a corporate governance problem. So you as an investor right when you invest in something instead of just doing a SAF and these lightweight things

that have virtually no rights for you should be investing in proper corporate governance structures uh at the early stage pre you know pre-TGE pre- network whatever and at the later stage you should be uh insisting upon things like Borgs uh things like foundations that don't just say hey no one knows anyone any duties or disclosures and uh you could do whatever you want basically as long it somehow relates to a certain token and instead have have those be more exact and give yourselves information rights uh uh and other

rights over these organizations in the long term. So so personally I think this is not a problem to be solved by the securities laws or by the government. It's to be solved by really good investors who have leverage over projects contracting with those projects for good rights. And for some reason I don't understand it because I'm a corporate governance guy originally. I was an M&A. Uh crypto investors don't do this. They're very very reluctant to to actually have governance rights over

over the things they invest in. But you can solve this as an investor. But well, first of all, I think that most crypto investors, you can keep me honest if not every single time. Well, but it I would say they don't want to be they didn't never wanted to be part of these corporate governance structures because the risk was so great in the United States. So, right, like even projects that I was representing would beg for their lead investor to be on the board and they would say, "No, I don't want to

do it because I don't want to get a subpoena." They got subpoenas anyway. So, that's one I but I do tend to agree with Gabe that this is a contracting problem on the forward-looking statements in terms of what people may say to you in their pitch and then what you actually get in terms of contractual rights because you're talking about it. And I'm like, well, if you relied on that, then you have a contract claim. But to Gab's point, if you don't have that within your, you know, contractual

rights, you may not be able to do anything about it. Yeah. To try to get to the market fairness point, investors that have not spoken to the team do not have a lot of this information. To be fair, there is significant market asymmetries that cause price distortions. That's what we're trying to resolve. Every term sheet I've ever given has had these type of control requirements in them and we have them in many. But this thing becomes a live dynamic decentralized network if designed correctly and there are things that

happen that are not public onchain and high resolution to the market for it to price incorrectly. It needs the ability to communicate about the present and future representations in a safe and transparent way to not disadvantage retail investors so that venture capitalists and other people with more information have edge. So I'm going to come to Jill um next, but just Michael just to stick with you for one quick followup. So to get very specific on that uh and that point is is the suggestion from your perspective that

assuming the SEC has jurisdiction, right? That's a whole separate question, right? Whether or not somebody security security, whatever. But let's just assume they do for purposes of this of this question. Is your suggestion that in a very specific focused way the SEC mandate certain disclosures under the federal securities laws that are fit for purpose for what you're describing? This is not meant to be a suggestion. It's meant to be highlighting a very complicated market distortion that we

are thinking through as risk underwriters today and we'd like to improve the quality of the market by having these Ford guidance disclosed in a sane and fair equitable way. Got it. And then just to circle back to Gabe real quick and then I'll come to Jill. I guess the question for you is is there a particular something that you think from a disclosure perspective would be you know above all else again assuming jurisdiction on the SEC's part this is something that you think should be

required to be disclosed in the context of certain you know um DeFi yeah I mean it's it's material agreements among material players I mean that's that's about the most succinct way I could play it you know market makers who are uh have a systemic role in the industry, you know, they they should be disclosing their agreements with particular projects, all these things. I mean, I agree, you know, it's partly an investor quality control thing. It partly could be helped with disclosure, but it can't

just be to Rebecca to to Rebecca's point, it it can't just be uh uh uh, you know, only on developers because there there's all these secondary players that are relevant um and the exchanges and all these things. And if you get good disclosure, you know, sunlight is the best disinfectant and the whole market would be better informed. Got it. I mean there are interesting questions maybe we'll come back to this as as we play through which is on anything along those lines what is the SEC's jurisdictional

hook right because a lot of the discussion is about you know technology if you will code um all of these systems are going to have securities in them I would argue I would argue almost all of them already do have securities in them um they're all going to have securities in them right so I mean ideally it would be something that Congress passes Right. And I think this will happen sooner or later, right? Um or or it could be some cooperation between the SEC and the CFTC, but in reality, I mean, I think

vast majority of these systems sooner or later, if not already, are going to have securities in them for whatever it's worth. I imagine folks may want to chime in on that. So anyway, if you do, um catch my catch my attention, but um Jill, I want to go to you. Thank you. Yeah, I'll I'll stay on topic here because I think this is a great uh conversation about accountability, disclosures, and risk mitigation. And I just want to draw attention to the fact that the industry has not waited for

regulators and overseeing bodies to chime in on this. This is something I'm really proud of as a participant in the industry is that industry has done an excellent job I would say of self-regulating and self-p policing in particular over the last five years. And I'll give a quick example of one of each of those on accountability, disclosure, and risk respectively. On accountability, we see projects get taken over by their communities. It doesn't happen often but it does happen where we have onchain governance systems

uh token holders have a vote in the direction of the project in particular in the way that funds get spent by a project. This is all transparent enforcable onchain and we see communities from the perspective probably of the founders of these projects go rogue on them where they say the founders aren't delivering what they said they would deliver. uh those forward-looking statements were indeed bogus and we're going to take the project in a different direction. This cuts both ways. Uh but I think that it

taken the right way is a positive development in terms of self-regulation by the industry. An example on the disclosure front is a website and a team called L2B. Uh so in the Ethereum ecosystem today, you have all of these different chains. It's no longer a monolith as we talked about earlier. you have all of these layer 2 chains and so L2B i.e. Layer 2B. Uh, I encourage everyone who has their phone or laptop out go to l2beat.com. It's an incredible dashboard and repository in which an independent team

has created their own framework that has made it incredibly legible even for new users to come in and understand the risks associated with and the levels of decentralization associated with any of these apps or chains. And I think that that is a great example of uh self-regulation, self-p policing by the industry. And if you're going to weigh in and create disclosure rules, uh you have to talk to the people behind that project and you have to look at that website before you get started. Yes,

there's one for DeFi as well. That's a great point, Gabe. Defibe. Uh the third example I'll give of self-regulation, self-p policing, uh just happened last week. Um, so we've talked a lot about the risks of decentralization on this round table this afternoon. One of those risks is that there's no recourse. Uh, if something is truly decentralized, if you send money to the wrong address, there's no charge back. You're not getting it back. Uh, there was an instance last week that went somewhat

viral on crypto Twitter. Uh, someone had used a piece of software built by a great company called Nosis. uh not realizing that they were using a legacy version of it, sent their entire net worth to the wrong address uh that they thought was associated with themselves uh but in fact was not. They thought that uh a black hat hacker had been squatting on that address just waiting for them to do it. And within a matter of hours, it became apparent that in fact it was not black hats, it was a white hat group called Protoire that had

been squatting on that address uh foreseeing that this could be a possibility for folks in that situation using the legacy bit of software. This was all disclosed, by the way, ahead of time by Nosis, but to Eric's point earlier, we don't all read the fine print. Uh but the White Hats got the uh entire net worth of this individual back to him within a few hours. So I I just want to highlight, you know, a lot of bad horror stories get told about the way the crypto industry acts and behaves

and runs a muck in the absence of guidance. Uh but there's a lot of good to be found as well. So So just to pick up on that and then Peter, I'll come to you. So Jill, in terms of the self-p policing and self-governance that you just spoke about and gave examples of and realizing you're not I I don't believe looking to over um overextend the point or or go farther than you than you intend to go. Um nonetheless, here's here's the question. In light of that, and I'm sure other examples like that

that you could um share with us, what's the SEC's role? H how what what do you think of in terms of that balance between self-p policing, self-governance versus when the government needs to come in whether it's the SEC or otherwise and as to which risks and I know we could go in a lot of directions and that could get very technical very quickly regulatory wise or technology wise but how to figure out how to think about that balance. Yeah. Uh, so I I'm not a lawyer up here, so you won't hear my

thoughts on low versus SEC today, sadly. But, uh, I I do think from a layman's perspective, I I tend to associate the SEC with consumer protection. That's how I think of the SEC's mandate. Uh, and that's something that I've been very grateful for at times. And then there have been other times where I have felt like, uh, candidly, the actions of the SEC have been misguided. and long-term in terms of the second order effects caused more harm than good uh to consumers not not to me as an

entrepreneur but to consumers of the crypto space and of the industry and I think that this is where again I want to highlight uh areas in which the industry has made headway on its own in terms of consumer protection. Uh I I'm less uh going to sit here and say the SEC should come in here, should come in there, but I think that there's a lot of lessons actually the SEC can learn from the crypto industry in how best to protect consumers of it, but the crypto industry could do a lot better too. So I I I love those examples

that you give, but I think too often they are the exception, not the rule. And I bet every single one of us here finds ourselves in situations regularly where we see the crypto industry do something where we just shake our head. And um and I think the the best way to avoid there being the kind of regulations that do disrupt innovation and progress is for the industry to just clean up its act a bit more. Unfortunately, the incentives aren't usually the incentives are actually the other way around. I think

Michael, this is what you run into all the time, that there are people making money from doing these shady deals behind the scenes, but we as an industry could do a better job of policing our own. Peter, so I'm going to start by diving back to something that we abandoned a little while ago, but I'll bring it back to this current conversation. Not not low versus SEC, more First Amendment. No. Uh Mike Moer brought up the um the control question. Um and I I'm happy to highlight this today because yesterday in a new version

of the Clarity Act in the House, we got an introduction of language the from uh Rep. Torres and Rep. Hemer's original blockchain regulatory certainty act which is a piece of legislation that's intended to clear up the question of whether you're a money transmitter and therefore subject to unlicensed money transmission liability as are the developers of the tornado cash protocol and the samurai wallet which have both been prosecuted in the Southern District of New York. That law is very important

because well, Fininsson in 2019 um Mike knows quite well said you're not a money transmitter if you don't have control independent total independent control over customer funds. And it's important to create that bright line rule in that context because of the gravity of the penalties that someone will face for breaking that rule and because of the low burden of proof for culpability that a prosecutor faces when they bring that action. Because this is not a moneyaundery prosecution. This is not

you knew that you were helping this person evade the law or hide their money. This is you were doing something that we define a certain way and you never registered with us. And that's basically a strict liability criminal felony. Then you just need the only thing the jury gets to decide is whether you registered or not, which is quite simple. And so the legal question of who is on the hook to register or not is the whole game. And therefore, you need a crisp standard so people know what side

of the what side of the strict felony liability they're on. And that's why in say anti-moneyaundering, bank secrecy act contexts where registration or licensing is required, that's the standard I want. That does not mean that that's the full and total and end and be all of where we have regulatory obligations or not. That's already not the case. Someone who doesn't have control and is primarily engaged in the publication of software could be prosecuted by the FTC or the CFPB for unfair, deceptive acts and

abusive acts for the CFPB practices when the software that they've published harms other people and they they were uh you know manifestally negligent in the way that they published or described that software. That also doesn't violate our first amendment principles inherently because it's not a prior restraint on speech. It's penalties for doing harm with speech after you've published. It's not a bureau of censorship. It's a reasonable liability regime as we have for things like

defamation. And so I think what we're getting at, one one of the things we're getting at here is that there are a lot of other categories beyond I have control or not where someone has made assurances to their users in technical documents or maybe in user interfaces or more um intelligible for the ordinary person uh areas where the users have come to rely on those asurances. Maybe it's an implied warranty, maybe it's some sort of cause of action and negligence. and we want to want there to

be some guardrails in place there. Now the interesting question is what is the role of the SEC there because a lot of that could be done using existing fraud or or even just basic negligence tors and that might be the right way to do it because when you have that freedom to sort of have plaintiffs attorneys construct their theory of liability. I mean let's just go back to 1L law school duty breach cause damages make a case that they had all of those. They they had a duty because of the way they

present themselves to consumers. Everyone assumes that they're going to act in a certain way. They breached that duty. The escape hatch was supposed to be triggered when condition Y materialized and it didn't get didn't materialize. They caused it. That was actually the reason that someone lost funds. And there's damages that are quantifiable. So they're not just speculative where you could just basically use this as a sledgehammer to kill all innovation by always claiming that you well egg eggshell skull rules

aside, that's a flexible system. And I like that. Now, why aren't we there with DeFi? Now, there are actually some really hard topics that maybe we don't even want to air on this panel right now. For one, even developers of fairly centralized projects that are not custodial will disclaim that they are any kind of incorporated organization. And they'll say, "Well, it's a DAO. You can't sue the group. We can't be jointly and severally liable because we're a DAO. We're not individuals working

together to profit off of the common management of a thing. So, that's a really thorny question. We need to look at the Yuki Dow uh private action, the CFTC suit for ways that we can find a way through that really thorny question. I I'm from a civil liberties organization. You might say like, Peter, why are you talking about Dows being jointly and severally liable? Well, the fact of the matter is I'm less afraid of that kind of liability than failure to register liability because there will be

a showing in court. There will have to be proofs of duty breach depending on the on the cause of action and this is how we actually grope towards an idea of what kind of standards do we want to have in place in the space and it's done in retrospect rather than some legisl legislature thinking like oh I can figure out exactly how all these things should be built xanti where we're why we're not there I think is partially incumbent on us but it's also because there's been this terror of using

existing private law to form your organization Because God forbid you actually incorporate or even have a document that says you're all interested in working together on a thing because then you'll get slapped with failure to license as a money transmitter and you get arrested at 5 a.m. and prosecuted for a strict liability federal felony. Similarly with the SEC's highly aggressive approach towards token issuance and the former chairmanship. I think there were a lot of people who thought like I I don't

want to look anything like a possible fiduciary to my co-developers because I'm mostly worried about unregistered securities issuance sort of a failure to check in rather than the liability for disappointing my my co-founders because I I should have been treated as a fiduciary in some regards to them and I wasn't. There's also I mean just on the quickly on the tort thing there's also the economic loss doctrine you know and so it's a favorite of mine. Yeah. the cases that have been

brought uh like like the maker dow black Thursday thing I'm pretty sure that was dismissed uh out of hand on that basis. So it's it's it's tough. It's tough. Well, and an interesting question as to the SEC's role here is are there areas where the SEC can help us define what negligence per se is? And is there any jurisdiction under the SEC for those things that are relevant to securities transactions to obviate the economic loss doctrine to say actually in this case you don't need to prove physical

harm to the to to the plaintiff. You can just sign economic damages. These are approaches that I would be very interested in having conversations about because we actually would start working towards more nuanced bottomup legal solutions as the common law can typically deliver rather than trying to reason in a vacuum about who's going to have to come in and register and not Michael J. Yeah, Rebecca was earlier talking about a pro a project called a Arc Galaxy. My former employee was one of the first

design partners. And the reason it didn't get off the ground the way we hoped was everyone had to check if it was okay with compliance. And by compliance, I mean everyone at the bank or whatever asset issuer it was. And and the point of this story is that the SEC can help us and help us get real people with real risk teams involved by making sure people are understanding what's happening, what's appropriate, and what's not. It was a 100x more work to get a arc off the ground than the other

projects we were doing even though we were doing 10x better risk mitigation than anyone else in the industry was. And so we were being penalized for trying to work with real people in a very uh safe way. And so when we're thinking about practical things we could take away from this. It's not that all action or inaction is is a help. It is making sure that the stance of people is hey we want to work. We want the real participants to come in with real risk departments and help you grow. Just to

key off of Michael's point, just to go back to a because everything old is new again. I think one place actually the SEC could put out really helpful rules because I don't think the only reason it didn't get off the ground was for checking with compliance for sure. That was part of it. But the permissioning of the system, there was a collective action problem on the permissioning for entrance into the system. And so to Gab's point, if we are going to have or if we already have uh securities trading

on DeFi protocols, I'd say at least I wouldn't say broadly, but in certain instances, we know that there are securities at least in permissioned pools on certain DeFi protocols. What the SEC can do is should talk about the permissioning or the whitelisting standards of the people who are going to let people into those systems. Right? So when we were thinking about aarch it was like well are your standards of KYC or whitelisting the same as ours and can we let that other person in and things like

that and so I think that would solve the collective action problem of what do you need to do to allow someone into a permissionless system where securities are or might be traded. So I'm going to go to Peter and then um Eric I want to come to I want to come to you. And ideally, we can do a lot better than the existing permissioning done by the financial institutions because right now when you want to open an account, you have to submit your passport photo, your mother's maiden name, all kinds of

absurd private information. And yet, you know, scammers and bots still get through those filters while innocent Americans are just struggling to open an account. So, we have a lot of great tools in our space. Um, there's a verifiable credential standard that's actually predates cryptocurrency just for passportable digital identity. Now, you can do a lot better than just I can prove that I have a digital signature on my passport that I've put onto my phone if you can aggregate multiple

credentials in some sort of user sovereign wallet. At the end of the day, there ends up being some certain metadata and other aspects of aggregating all those credentials that might have to be held on a server somewhere, but it shouldn't be a server. It shouldn't be Google or Apple that knows all of the different identity documents you have and your diploma on your wall, your driver's license in your wallet. It should be a freaking blockchain. It should be completely private like some of the newer layer 2s

like Aztec or some of the newer layer ones like Alo. And then you can use zero knowledge proofs as the individual who holds the credentials to selectively disclose to the entity out there who's only supposed to deal with you know gated securities transactions that you are i.e. an accredited investor, but that entity doesn't need to know anything else about you if we get this right. And there's a huge work stream in digital identity that is waiting to be explored right at the same time that

we're thinking about how to as well not right at the same time because we were trying to do it a while ago with a arc but everything old is new again but right at the same time it's new again it's new again so I think these two things work absolutely in tandem and that's one of the most promising areas for the SEC to do good work in this space is figuring out better ways of gating and permissioning that aren't just this give us all of your personal information in order to get onto this

platform. Gaining and permissioning where where the SEC itself leverages the capabilities of the technology. Exactly. So not just that the technology creates certain risks but that it creates certain opportunities aside from what it means in terms of peer-to-peer peer pool protocol but it creates other opportunities in terms of compliance risk management and like I mean not only should a bank not need to know what race I am for me to open an account they should not know what race I am period ever why there's no point for it

Eric so we've talked about a lot of stuff um it would be great to get your thoughts um whatever they may be on on what we've been talking about uh since after the break. Uh I want to suggest that what we see in front of us is um actually a really remarkable flourishing of new financial innovation. Um I want to point out how well the markets are actually solving the problems that have emerged in crypto. Um, for those of you who have been in crypto long enough, you remember Mount Gaus, right? The big exchange,

centralized exchange that blew up, almost destroyed the whole industry. Um, what regulation prevented that from happening or what regulation from government came out that solved that problem in the future? None. Not a single one. You know what did solve it? Dexes. decentralized exchanges solved that problem because you had open source immutable code that anyone could see. That is a amazing market innovation that does not get enough airtime. I want to point out let's use a again uh versus a company like BlockFi. BlockFi was

based in New York and BlockFi abided by all the rules and all the regulations and much of their marketing was based around how compliant they were. They made sure to KYC all of their customers. They made sure that everyone that worked with them had to hand over their private personal information and meanwhile a did not. A was this um you know wild west DeFi application. Uh what was the future of these two things? A is still around and processes billions of dollars trustlessly uh in an amazingly transparent way. BlockFi went

bust and lost hundreds of millions of dollars of customer money. Right. Which regulation solved that problem? None. None. It was DeFi. It was private markets and people pursuing profit to solve problems, which Americans used to realize was something that the market is supposed to do, not the government. I want to point out that as far as the SEC goes, I want to draw people's attention to what crypto looked like pre207 and post. Pre 2017, nearly all of the innovations that we enjoy in crypto

happened. This included things like the dexes and the liquidity pools, the NFTts which started with CryptoKitties way back then. We had permissionless lending platforms. We had distributed file storage systems. We had uh Ethereum itself, smart contracts, which are one of the most remarkable financial innovations of all time. Um, we had privacy coins. Everything was booming in 2017. Admittedly, there was lots of fraud and nonsense as happens on all frontier markets and all speculative cycles. And

yet, when 2017 came to an end, 2018 arrives and the SEC arrives and the SEC completely stamped out most of the innovation that was happening in this space. And I was there at the very front lines seeing the souls getting crushed of the entrepreneurs that were trying to do this stuff. Some of them just gave up. Some of them moved to other countries. And what kind of innovations have we had following that regulatory enforcement? We've had L2s and we've had Fartcoin. This is a very important point. A a

thing to add in is if you want to talk about like effective distribution of a token like Ethereum just doing a public sale to like nerdy interested developers created a really fair distribution and Jesus they raised about $35 million to build that and look at what happened after people started doing regulatory compliant token issuance. venture capitalists get all of the tokens and the project kind of withers on the vine despite having massive funding. Yeah. Post post 2018, most of the interesting

token sales went through more regulated channels and and the VCs were the ones that that made out. Yeah. I mean, I I agree with all this 100%. It's definitely a factor, but there are other variables beyond just regulation. Like like when people bought into the Ethereum ICO, like no one was confident that these things were worth billions and billions of dollars yet. And you know if so if an entrepreneur is raising today I think many times they they don't want to just sell to just anyone. They

they want to get the VCs because there are certain events. So it is complicated generally agree with the gist of both of what you said and it's a factor for sure and it's part of the story of how we got to the current bad place but but there are other factors for what it's worth. I I don't disagree. I mean sometimes I've found myself saying something that I will admit is quite naive like just do what Satoshi did. Why why why do you have to raise money at all? Whoever that person is, they built the most important

innovation in the history of recent history of finance and they did it with no fundraising. They were able to mine though for about two or three years with no competition because who in their right mind would start mining Bitcoin in in in the early days and who would even know that it was available? those kinds of early returns on someone's innovation are probably no longer available because the the minute you actually create some new protocol with a proof of work or proof ofstake mechanism, you know,

you're you're going to get you're going to get out competed of your own innovation and not actually earn Grincoin tried a fair launch, right? Proof of work, all the same stuff that Soci did and private equity firms bought off all the miners and and and dumped the supply and retail really complicated and the SEC certainly doesn't bear the burden of that issue. Um but but I think it has made it very difficult for for folks who are you know in good faith trying to do the right thing to take

more reasonable steps towards say creating some sort of like incorporation between yourselves or being on in your US jurisdiction and cooperating with with law enforcement and regulators because you're just so afraid of this did you come in and register or did you get a money transmission license question. So Eric I think you now may have some more more to respond to. So, if you want to um I'll just I'll just end that little tirade by saying that um the entrepreneurial spirit, especially when

it comes to anything novel, is a incredibly precious thing. Um it does not grow in hostile environments and uh it cannot be planned for and it is um an impulse that is responsible responsible for much of the wonderful things that we have in the world. Um, America became great because uh, whether consciously or not permitted that impulse to happen and um, cryptocurrency has been a demonstration of that impulse coming back in specifically the realm of finance. Uh, the best thing that America could do for itself, for its people, for

the world would be to embrace that impulse and to permit that kind of permissionless innovation to happen again. And that requires permitting risk. That requires permitting harm. It requires letting people experiment without a permission slip. Um, and if America can do that and lead, then I think most other countries will will follow suit. So, we'll leave it at that. So, Michael M, any any thoughts on any or all of that? Uh, this is going to be very nerdy uh take on that, but we've done this

before a bit. uh in the prepaid cards world looking to my regulatory professors to appreciate but um you know prepaid cards came out actually in the 70s in Europe but then the 80s and 90s in in America and for a while in fact it was Congress that was pushing Fininsen in particular to regulate they said there's these these cards they're sort of bearer instruments um but they can be but it mixes with the online it's online and offline um what do we do with these we think there's too much risk and Fininsen

basically took a a strategic incrementalism for for a long time actually through the 80s and 90s into 2000 in fact I think it was I just looked it up it was in 2009 finally um Vincen said we're going to take action Congress is really pushing us but we want to be incremental here they had extreme engagement with industry really over over a couple decades and the way they did it was they quantified engaging with industry what are the major risks here and working with law enforcement uh and then basically set thresholds of

activity based on the actual risks that they were seeing including the ability to re so when you could refill a card uh it was up it's a much higher regulatory perimeter when you can't refill it when you can only use it in a closed loop loop system um when you can use it internationally but not domestically there's there's all sorts of ways to do it and I think part of that was getting together with industry and saying okay these are the priority risks to Eric's point in the meantime there's a

threshold at which we're just going to let people experiment to a certain degree, but we're going to set some priority risks and keep coming down down down from the priorities. Um, which is actually something that that the the administration the last two administrations actually have said repeatedly even on especially on elicit finance is let's prioritize the risks. We can't treat everything the same. Um, so I do think there's there's this has been done before. Um, but here there's

an opportunity to do it that leverages even more of the technical risk management than we than we ever had before. And just to follow up real quick and then maybe Joe, I'll pose the similar question to you in the 10 or so minutes uh we have we have left here for a few more questions. is one of the is one of the risks um the risks of is one of the risks the risk of stifling the innovation stifling the technology I mean h how does that factor because you can think about risks in terms of the downside right things that just go badly

you can think about risk in terms of the upside that you lose and how to weight those things in terms of just the the judgments that goes back to some of the points about line drawing and goes back to some Peter's points about, you know, do you have more bright lines so that folks are able to know with certainty? Of course, that then really presents the line drawing question. But if you do it in an informed way and you know that you're making choices, if you have more principles or standards, there's

something to be said for that because there's inherent flexibility, but with that inherent flexibility can come a measure of uncertainty. So you start thinking about the risk, you start thinking about it symmetrically. Losing a good thing is a risk in addition to incurring a bad thing. And then you think about all right do you want certainty and clarity and bright lines even if you run the risk of the line being a little too this or a little too that you have opportunity to come back and adjust and at least you have

certainty and folks can comport their business and activities accordingly is is that the kind of thing or do you have something else in mind I think it is risk and opportunity and and part of that opportunity is that you may miss an opportunity to better manage risk and so I think that's that's partly why we talked about safe harbors for white hat hackers like we Jill gave this incredible example of people that were willing to that actually came in and saved someone's life savings in a in an

otherwise very trustless permissionless system that the downside of that is you could lose everything if you sent it to the wrong address but you had people that were able to save somebody but those people are not going to do that the next time if they're considered a financial institution as a money transmitter for doing that or if they feel overly liable to cyber intrusion risk from the Department of Justice. that says this is a technical this is technically a hack and and we're prosecuting you. We don't it doesn't

matter to us that the victim may or may not be on board. And there's a lot of that gray area where people the white hats are doing. This is something that security alliance spent a lot of time Gabe worked on this Rebecca um setting out a safe harbor so that people could do exactly what Jill was talking about and and save people in a way that having been at Justice Department we didn't want every single person that lost $20 coming into us. And we were extremely happy when when people would just help

each other. Uh there's always plenty of crime. So um I think I think having that sort of ability to like that opportunity is the opportunity to keep people from actually helping each other and that's really important. And I think the last opportunity that I want to highlight that we want to make sure we're factoring in is in the last actually it was in the last Trump administration there were um there were it was an authoritarian regime in in Venezuela and people were were quite sick and there

was no way to get money to these pro-democracy and even just plain healthcare workers in Venezuela. And the way that the government determined to do that, working with the Democratic opposition in Venezuela, was they identified healthcare workers in Venezuela that had self-hosted wallets that they could transmit seized funds of that authoritarian dictator that had been frozen and then seized that they got back to the people of Venezuela who were healthcare workers. Only possible in a permissionless system. 60,000

healthcare workers in Venezuela were transmitted to their self-hosted wallets, USDC, uh, in a way that you could never do. Any any fiat currency that the US government sent into Venezuela would just be taken by the central government. Um, and that was a major national security and foreign policy goal of the US that was hereto for absolutely impossible to do other than bags of cash on the tarmac. Uh, and who knows where that goes. So, I think the opportunity is a it's a foreign policy risk. It's a

democracy risk. Um, but it's also a riskmanagement risk of of that sort of safe harbors. Got it. So, I'm gonna in the 10 minutes we have I'm going to come to Peter just real quick on a very specific question then Jill Kevin Omid and then we'll see if we're at Can I just like two seconds just follow up on that because you raised a good question. It comes down to organizational mission and if we're talking about the SEC it has a multifaceted mission. One one part of the mission is investor protection

and that should be taken seriously. Another part of the mission is promoting capital formation in the United States and that that's about the the opportunity that's lost when there's too much or too harsh regulation. So I mean both of these things can be true and and each uh government entity needs to look to its own mission in terms of making that assessment. And Peter the quick question for you because you you had mentioned bright lines and also standards as well. Just I'm curious from

your perspective when you think about all the things you think about it could be first amendment stuff. It could just be the practicalities not just your practicalities of regulation compliance etc. Do you have a general view in 60 seconds or less in terms of the pros cons of more brightlined approaches particularly when it's still relatively early days which have their certainty as compared to more principles or standardbased approaches which have their flexibility but sometimes can have a measure of uncertainty. Do you have a

a view or a leaning one way or the other on that? So where people's liberty is on the line, I want a bright line standard. Um, you know, and that's why the money transmission licensing issue is Coin Center's top priority and why the blank the blockchain regulatory certainty act in Congress is our top priority legislation. Sorry to bring that up at the SEC. It's nothing to do with you all. It has to do with um money transmission regulation. But uh you know when when someone can be found guilty uh

by a jury of a strict liability federal felony for failure to register, I want people to know exactly what kind of conduct they're supposed to register for. I'm also going to say that I don't want certain conduct to be subject to registration because that could start to become a prior restraint on speech if the thing you're supposed to register for is publishing a software protocol. But on harder questions like where we have these nebulous concerns about levels of influence or responsibility

that um people in these systems can use to abuse their users or can negligently fail to um make true um their their implied promises, their implied warranties or their explicit promises to their users. I do not think a bright line rule makes sense because we simply do not know the things we do not know as far as what how these systems should be built, what kinds of technological control should be in place, what kinds of actual agency and discretion for developers or quasi trusted entities on these networks are good and that we want

to see. And so we can't we can't write that as a bright line test. And to me, uh, when I say principles-based regime, I I also I mean the private law. I mean the common law because that to me is is actually the most principles-based bottomup emergent way of law makingaking. I don't think Congress should be taking action even if it's to create some sort some sort of cause of action that the private law could be used. I think you want the fraud laws to be used. You want um misrepresentation.

you want and these are things that are also within the FCC's jurisdiction with respect to their specific powers over securities transactions. So to me I would just 100 times overindex on that um visa v defy uh and to the extent there's anything where you want registration and that there are strict liability crimes for registration that needs to be a bright line category because we don't want people falling on the wrong side of that line surprisingly and that also cannot be something as

simple as publishing uh a software protocol. uh Joe to come back to the question I had asked Michael M just the broad question in terms of thinking about lost opportunity and how that weighs in the balance and it's also the point that uh that Kevin commented on your thoughts. Yeah, thank you. I mentioned earlier but I'll just reiterate again we've lost both as the United States and also as an industry a lot of great innovators and entrepreneurs over the last five or six years. Um, and I I really hope that that

is a point that sticks with those of you who are tuned in or or live in the audience here. Um, because that is what what is at stake. And I think that we've had a lot of great examples of the potential, but also what crypto has already delivered mentioned here on the panel today. I would like to see more efforts being put into delivering stable coins into regions of the world where they're most badly needed. Uh but over the last several years, partly because of the SEC, partly because of other

organizations like it, not just in the United States, but around the world, uh that struck fear into the hearts of a lot of the entrepreneurs who were working on these things. Thankfully, there are those brave few who stuck around uh and and continued to work on these very real products and services. Uh but many were driven again out of the country, out of the industry or as Eric highlighted into other areas of the industry that if you ask me personally are much less productive. Uh the memecoin mania has singularly grown out

of SEC's policies over the last 5 years. And that is regardless of what you think of memecoins, in my view, that is a damn shame because that innovation and that entrepreneurial fire previously was going into the types of products that Michael mentioned, uh that MJ mentioned, that Gabe has mentioned. Uh so many of the conversations that we've had up here today have focused on. Uh but that's that that fire has at least in part been lost to again in my view less productive uh uh entrepreneurial endeavors over the

last few years. Ahmed uh since we're nearing the end of the conversation uh maybe a question that I don't have the answer to which is that stable coin legislation is moving forward. The seize and freeze function of stable coins is is a key part of that legislation. Stable coins are very prominent in DeFi. If stable coin issuers start seizing and freezing coins in DeFi, it'll break DeFi. Uh, and I think this is both Gabe and Kevin sort of alluded to this that we have permissioned or regulated entities

starting to really interact with the more native permissionless ones within DeFi. Um and uh it's something we have to start talking about. Um and so far the solutions that I've heard are frankly not very good because they just pit two parts of the what the government wants against each other. So for example the entities that care about illicit activity want the seize and freeze function. But if you're an agency like the regula uh like the SEC, you really care about the stability of DeFi and you

wouldn't want something like Circle suddenly being compelled to freeze a billion USDC in an A pool to lead to a run on a what if to plug into a narrative that was current before you know Circle decided to IPO. What if someone new acquires circle and they happen to run a blockchain that competes with another blockchain where billions of dollars of this stable coin are? Uh what could why are they acquiring it? Are they acquiring it just to run a stablecoin business or does it give them a hook

into their competitor to influence fork choice which we haven't talked about at all here but it's a big big thing you know uh all these things and you know that may be the realm of antitrust. The SEC may have a role, the CFTC may have a role, but the bigger these systems become and the more systemically important they become, the more important these these these issues and questions of law become. All right. Well, I think we're um at time. Um I think we could talk a lot more about a lot more stuff, but if

you'd u join me in thanking the panelist and Commissioner Pur is going to bring some here. [Applause] Well, thank you, Troy, and thank you to the panelists. I thought this was a fascinating discussion. Shows we need uh we we're not done yet really. There are a lot of unanswered questions still. Um but I think it is encouraging um to know that that um we can make progress. you know, we talked about sometimes the community in a protocol says to the founder, um, we're taking it over from

here. We're going to do something different. And I think this is this is a time for, um, the American people to say to its regulators, you know what, you really messed up and we want to take it in a different direction. Um, and so now let's figure out where to go with that. I think there's some promise uh some someone you know there's a lot of risk I think that we talked about um those risks manifested themselves in people uh leaving the US um spending their time on less productive things um than they

otherwise would have. But there's also promise I think in the sense that we as regulators um should remember that a lot of problems are problems that we don't have to solve. We just have to give people the room within which they can solve those problems and then we can focus on the ones that regulators are uniquely uh designed to to solve. And so um some of that is there is stuff that we can take off our plate and I think that's that's encouraging and then we can all try to do a better job with

what's on our plate and more interactions like this are going to be very valuable for us in that. Um, so Troy, I I know you've put in a tremendous amount of work in preparing for both this this round table and the first one. I appreciate it. Um, we we all have lots of work ahead of us. I do invite people who have thoughts on these things to take a look at our website. If you go to the SEC's main website, sec.gov, there's a there's a tab there for crypto task force. There are

different ways you can interact with us there. We do welcome people's feedback. you can provide written input, you can come meet with us. Um, and so I'm looking forward to to further input from people. Um, I have to thank before we end just the the the dozens of talented and committed commission staff in the chairman's office, other commissioner's offices across the across the commission, the office of information technology, public affairs, secretary, chief operating officer, financial

office of financial management, um, and many others. And then on the crypto task force, it's a wonderful team that I work with. um they they do so much um not only to make these roundts happen um but to actually get to more cryptoclarity um so thank you to them but for the roundts specifically Samira Ununas Iliano Chabano uh Landon Zinda and Robert Tley have all put in tremendous amounts of time on on getting these task force together so thank you um and they've always approached it with a mix of

levity levity and organizational genius um which is a good combination. Thank you all for attending whether here in person or online and please stay in touch. Thank you all. [Applause]