Richard Gabbert: Good afternoon. My name is Richard Gabbert, and I'm the Chief of Staff of the Crypto Task Force. It's my pleasure to welcome you all to the second of five roundtables in the Security and Exchange Commission's spring sprint toward crypto clarity -- Between a Block and a Hard Place: Tailoring Regulation for Crypto Trading. Three weeks ago, at the first of our roundtables, we had the opportunity to hear a lively discussion of how we should think about the definition of security

in evaluating the status of a particular crypto asset. Today, we turn our attention to how these assets are currently traded, how, or whether the Commission should regulate crypto trading platforms, and what assets might be traded on trading platforms that the Commission does regulate. These are not easy questions. New technologies and new business models may not fit neatly within the Exchange Act, and as the Commission noted in its 1997 concept release on Regulation ATS, it's easy to give in to the tendency

to try to discourage innovation in order to protect existing practices. But as the Commission explained in that release, the SEC has, over its history, also sought to accommodate market innovations within the existing statutory framework to the extent possible in light of investor protection concerns, without imposing regulation that would stifle or threaten the commercial viability of such innovations. In other words, it's important for the Commission -- and here I'm quoting the concept release again --

to cultivate an atmosphere in which innovation is welcome and possible. Fortunately, we have an incredibly qualified group of panelists and a moderator with years of experience as an Exchange Act lawyer to help us understand how the Commission might accommodate innovations in the way assets are traded. Thank you all for agreeing to participate in this discussion. I noted prior to our first roundtable that the task force has benefited from our engagement with the public, and I'm happy to report that this engagement is ongoing.

The quality of written submissions is impressive, and we continue to learn from market participants willing to get into the weeds with us and talk in detail about their challenges and possible solutions. Please continue this engagement. Before I turn the podium over to our three Commissioners, I'd like to remind everyone that this event is being streamed live and is being covered by multiple media outlets. Accordingly, please be aware that all remarks by Commission officials, participants, and members of our audience will be on the record.

In addition, please remember that the participants in today's roundtable speak on their own behalf, and that their views do not necessarily reflect the views of the Commission, the Commissioners, or members of the Commission staff. We're now ready to begin, first with recorded remarks from our Acting Chairman, Mark Uyeda, followed by remarks from Commissioner Crenshaw and Commissioner Peirce. Thank you. Mark Uyeda: Good afternoon, and welcome to the Crypto Task Force's second roundtable,

which is focused on crypto trading. Over 200 years ago, a group of stockbrokers gathered under a buttonwood tree to establish basic rules for the trading of securities on an organized market in New York City. Today, we are at a similar point in time in the history of markets as we gather to discuss the regulation of crypto asset trading within the United States. Early securities markets developed organically in response to supply and demand. Like the early securities markets, organized markets for crypto asset

trading developed organically in response to supply and demand for the emerging asset class. The first crypto markets operated entirely out of the regulatory perimeter. A number of state agencies exercised regulatory authority over crypto markets under the view that the platforms were akin to currency exchanges and subject to money transmitter licensing laws. State regulation of crypto asset trading raises the potential for there to be a patchwork of state licensing regimes. We should consider whether there may be

a more efficient method of regulation under an accommodating federal regulatory framework. Some market participants would likely prefer to offer trading in both tokenized securities and non-security crypto assets under a single SEC license, rather than offer trading solely in non-security crypto assets under 50 different state licenses. However, the federal securities laws and regulations may present challenges for broker-dealers and national securities exchanges seeking to offer trading in tokenized securities.

For example, national securities exchanges can only list registered securities, and most tokenized securities in the market today are unregistered. Additionally, compliance with Rule 611, also known as the Order Protection Rule, may not be possible with respect to customer orders for securities that trade in both tokenized and non-tokenized formats in on- and off-chain markets. Incumbent crypto asset trading platforms seeking to offer trading in tokenized securities also face unique obstacles. Unlike securities exchanges, crypto asset trading platforms

are typically vertically integrated with custody, execution, and clearing all occurring on the same platform. Blockchain technology offers the potential to execute and clear securities transactions in ways that may be more efficient and reliable than current processes. For example, blockchains can be used to manage and mobilize collateral in tokenized form to increase capital efficiency and liquidity. Additionally, decentralized finance software protocols allow users to transact on a 24/7 basis via smart contracts.

The drafters of the federal securities laws did not contemplate the use of blockchains or smart contracts to perform the functions of a transfer agent, facilitate the exchange of securities, or clear securities transactions. While the Commission works to develop a long-term solution to address these issues, a time-limited conditional exemptive relief framework for registrants and non-registrants could allow for greater innovation with blockchain technology within the United States in the near term.

I encourage market participants that are developing new ways to trade securities using blockchain technology to provide input on where exemptive relief may be appropriate. Thank you to the Crypto Task Force and the panelists for your time in preparing for this roundtable. I look forward to the discussions that follow. Female Speaker: Good afternoon. Welcome everyone to the second installment of the Crypto Task Force's roundtables. Today, we focus on crypto trading. This is a topic of particular interest to me

because it wades into, as you've just heard from Chairman Uyeda, into some of the practical implications, questions, challenges, and risks that impact actual investors who own, and therefore trade, crypto of all varieties. Any conversation about crypto trading quickly reveals the immense complexity and unique nature of these transactions. In thinking about these complexities, I can't help but consider them from the perspective of a retail investor. What is a retail investor's expectation

for how their crypto investments move through a trading platform? What protections do they naturally assume that they have based on crypto companies' marketing and their experience with more traditional investments? Do they actually have the benefit of those protections in practice? Perhaps they should, but do they? And if they don't, how are they warned of that? In addition to investor protections, we of course have to consider how crypto trading platforms may or may not fit into our existing regulatory regime

for national securities exchanges and alternative trading systems. Crypto trading platforms are unique because, among other reasons, they often perform multiple services under one roof, sometimes including brokerage, clearing, and custody. Each of these functions is vitally important to maintaining the safety and integrity of assets entrusted by investors to such entities. In traditional finance, these are typically performed by separate registered entities. That's because of the high risk of conflicts of interest

and risks for investors. Because many of these entities are not registered with a regulator -- not the SEC, not with the states, and not with an SRO -- they often do not comply with any of the existing laws designed to minimize these risks and potential conflicts. Though the SEC has urged investors to exercise caution, in some instances we have seen some of those risks materialize in a way that has caused significant market disruption and harm to investors. After those instances, we become painfully aware of the mismatch

between investors' expectations and reality. Investors didn't realize that their crypto may be held in a single wallet controlled solely by the exchange. Investors didn't realize that custodially held crypto would be treated as property of the exchange in a bankruptcy proceeding. Investors didn't realize that their investments were not covered by any FDIC or SIPC insurance. Beyond the consequences to individual investors, these ongoing risks propose a large threat to orderly functioning of the crypto markets

and potentially also to the banking system and traditional finance. So where do we go from here? That's where you and the roundtable come in. How do we approach the question of crypto exchange registration? How do on- and off-chain transactions comply with broker-dealers' obligations, best X, or customer protection rule? That's just some of them. I know there are many more that you will address today. How can we address and minimize custody risks and conflicts of interest? Together, let's explore answers to these difficult questions

that can protect both investors and the markets. Thank you all for your continued participation and look forward to hearing what you have to say today. [applause] Female Speaker: Welcome, everyone. It's great to have you all here watching in person or online. We're happy to have our second in a series of roundtables dedicated to discussing regulatory challenges and opportunities in the crypto asset market. I'd like to thank all the staff who are making these roundtables possible. It's a lot of work, and thanks also to the folks

who have submitted responses to our requests for information and to people who have come in to meet with the crypto task force. These materials and discussions have been informative, and I hope that you'll continue to engage with us. I found the first roundtable useful in shaping my thoughts on when crypto assets implicate the securities laws. Given the expert panelists who have graciously agreed to share their time with us today, I'm confident that this discussion will be just as fruitful and engaging as the first one was.

Our panelists represent a variety of institutions including national securities exchanges, alternative trading systems, and crypto native firms that engage in or facilitate various types of centralized and decentralized trading activities. The different perspectives will continue to contribute to an interesting conversation, but also will highlight an important feature of successful markets -- the ability to pursue a wide range of business models and approaches to trading. This flexibility fosters innovation,

increases competition, and ultimately benefits investors. We should keep this in mind as we consider an appropriate regulatory framework for crypto asset markets. Notwithstanding the diverse range of approaches to trading, I expect that many common issues will emerge. For example, firms are interested in offering investors the ability to engage in pairs trading or the trading of a security against a crypto asset such as a stable coin. SEC rules do not prohibit this activity, but given that securities historically have been quoted

and settled in U.S. dollars, certain of our rules such as record-keeping, reporting, and national market system rules may not clearly contemplate pairs trading. Would it be helpful for us to provide guidance about how any of our rules might apply to pairs trading or whether any rules should be modified to better accommodate or account for this type of activity? A related set of issues that I hope you'll consider are authority and jurisdictional issues. As a general matter, the SEC's authority is limited

to securities activity. What can and should we do in the short term, and what should Congress consider in the longer term to ensure that the regulatory gaps are filled as firms increasingly seek to combine securities and non-securities trading activity? In addition, because the SEC is just one of many federal regulators -- and state regulators as well -- that currently and in the future may play a role in crypto regulation, what concerns do you have about potentially overlapping or even conflicting regulatory regimes?

In the near term, how useful would it be for the Commission, using its exemptive authorities, to permit limited-scale market testing by intermediaries? What would appropriate guardrails be on such testing? Participating firms could see what works and what doesn't -- technically and commercially -- and such trials could also inform the Commission's rulemaking efforts. Finally, as daunting as the task is before us, the Commission has experience adapting a regulatory framework to new and innovative technologies

and methods for trading. In 1984, for example, the Commission issued a release expressing its views on computer brokerage systems that allowed investors to send orders to brokers without the use of a telephone. In 1998, the Commission issued a statement regarding the use of the internet to offer securities services, and Regulation ATS was a response to the development of new types of trading systems made possible by advancements in technology. What lessons can these and other examples of integrating new technology into our markets teach us?

Our moderator, Nick Losurdo, and I are both fans of apple cider vinegar. ACV, as we believers call it, is supposed to be good for whatever ails you. People clamor especially for ACV with the mother, which is the bacterial bundle that gives ACV its probiotic punch -- or at least so we believe. A close look at the tangled mess that is called the mother might scare you, but ingesting it is good. So too, the topics before our panel -- we're looking at an unsightly, legal, and technical knot of issues,

but the conversations among our expert panel will undoubtedly be good for us. Nick, it's all yours. [applause] Nicholas Losurdo: Thank you for that, and welcome. You know, it's tough when I travel. I don't actually bring a big bottle of ACV with me, so I'll probably stop by the store and get some later. But good afternoon. It's really great to see so many folks here, especially on a Friday, on a rainy day in D.C. As my four-year-old Cam would say whenever we have a big event coming up, "Today's the day,"

and I'm really excited that today is finally the day for us to be here. Thank you for this Commission and its leadership. Thank you, Commissioner Peirce, Commissioner Crenshaw, Chairman Uyeda -- wherever you are today -- Richard Gabbert, Samira [phonetic sp], and the rest of the Crypto Task Force. Thank you for this panel. I really appreciate everyone giving their time on a Friday. I know everyone's busy, particularly this time of year, and we're really, really lucky to have you here

to share your thoughts. Before we go forward, I thought it would make sense to maybe take a step back and look back, and so bear with me on this one. October 2018, six and a half years ago, I was actually in this room. It was my first week on the job. I was counsel to then- Commissioner Elad Roisman. I was excited. I was nervous. I was giddy. It was a really awesome opportunity, and I was really excited about the job. And that week I had the treat of actually having a two-day roundtable here in this room

covering equity market data. We got to listen to top-notch industry experts. We got to have great conversation. The dialogue that day led to important rulemaking over the course of the next few weeks and months and years, rather -- and without that, that rulemaking either wouldn't have happened or wouldn't have been as good as it was. It shows that these roundtables can and do work, and it's incredibly important that we have them. Now, crypto was a thing six and a half years ago. It was a thing six and a half months ago.

And I'll say I wish we would have had a roundtable like this earlier than today, but as the saying goes, we're here today and better late than never. Let me say a little bit about moving forward. I think it's incredibly important for this industry that we get, at a minimum, regulatory clarity on just about every topic we're going to talk about today. And for many of these, if not most of these -- I'm kind of a needy person -- we should be aiming for regulatory certainty so that six and a half years from now,

we are not in the position that we have been in for the past six and a half, and that we are in today. So let me tell a little bit about the roundtable and how I see it going. We've got two sessions. The first session, we're going to get into broad-based topics, specific topics. We're going to dig deep. We're going to share all these views that the roundtable panelists have. In the second session, after the break, starting at around 3:30, I believe -- so come back if you leave us then --

we're going to actually offer up ideas that the Commission can run with to inform it with its future rulemaking, future guidance, future staff relief -- really the direction it's going to take its mission and its role and its approach with respect to crypto trading over the next couple of months and couple of years. I want to stress that we're here today to talk about crypto trading. As was mentioned, there was already a roundtable on security status. There was a lot of discussion of how we --

there are roundtables coming up on crypto custody, DeFi, and tokenization. Did I get those all? I think I did. So we're going to bump up against those topics, but we're really going to try to stay focused on crypto trading to really do this roundtable right. So, bios for all the panelists are on the website. We're not going to do intros or bios. These are some of the top of the top experts in the space who have been in the space -- for most people -- over a decade. And so I'm looking forward to a really, really great discussion.

With that, why don't we get into it? And I'm going to break this down into the Grammar School way of writing and thinking -- the who, what, when, where, why, and how. We're going to start with the what today. And the first question -- and we're just going to go right down the panel -- starting with you, Dave. You're up first. When we talk about SEC regulation of crypto trading, what should that actually be? What should the SEC have jurisdiction over? What should be in scope?

And perhaps as importantly, what should not be in scope? What should the SEC not have jurisdiction over? I'll remind you that the commissioners are in the room, but I encourage everybody to speak freely so that the Commission and the staff can actually take our feedback and run with that over the next few months and years. Dave, you're up. Dave Lauer: Thanks, Nick. Thank you, Commissioner Peirce and Crenshaw, for having me here at the Crypto Task Force. I very much appreciate everyone's ideas

and receptivity to our thoughts and to be on a panel with all of you. It's great. No pressure to go first, of course. But when I think of scope, I'm thinking of it at least in two ways. The first and simplest is that securities are securities. And digital securities should be regulated by the SEC. I do think another way to think about it is that you can expand scope to consider broader investor protection questions along with regulatory agency cooperation. I have found that the turf warfare,

the infighting, the constant question of who should be regulating what has caused investor harm directly. And I think that's been extremely problematic over the course of the last few years, watching regulatory agencies grapple with crypto -- whether they're securities or commodities. And so, you know, regardless of whether something falls under the purview of the SEC or the CFTC, I think there's so many interlinkages and so much potential crossover that it's incumbent for these two agencies to work very closely together.

I'm a strong believer that there are real benefits to crypto technology. There's the opportunity for real-time settlement, collateral management, incredible transparency that is really unprecedented in our sort of centralized world of equity trading -- reduced counterparty risk, disintermediation opportunities, and self-custody, and all sorts of other things that, you know, I'm sure we're going to talk about. But there's nothing magical about the blockchain that eliminates the core principles of investor protection.

And I really believe strongly in much of the things that I'm going to talk about today are really centered on that -- on investor protection. If you want true adoption as an industry, you need to have guardrails, and you need to give the public confidence in what they're buying or selling. Everyone wants crypto to be successful, and we really need responsible innovation and right-sized regulation that's tailored to the industry. Austin Reid: Great. Thanks, Dave. And thank you guys all for hosting us today.

I was told not to do too long of a thank you, so I'll keep it brief. But I feel really fortunate to be in this room and to have the opportunity to have a dialogue, right, about this industry asset class and the best path forward, specifically in the United States, for us to continue to innovate. And I think, from my perspective, bring more and more activity back on shore, right? If you look at this market, I think the interesting component is, if you look just pure trading activity overall,

about 85 percent of global crypto volume is outside of the United States today. And I think that as Congress, SEC, CFTC are working to provide regulatory clarity to this space, and the President talks about the U.S. being the crypto hub of the world, that's the metric that I think we should be watching to really measure the success in terms of what we're able to do. And I know, like Dave mentioned, there's a lot of work that's being done around the definition of these different assets.

I'm hopeful that we'll get legislation there. And on the question of, like, okay, where should the SEC focus? I think, for the assumptions of this conversation, what I am making is that that primary focus will obviously be on the security side of this space. And within that, both the assets that are defined to be securities, as well as the different market participants that fall under securities regulation, right, whether those are exchanges, broker-dealers, custodians, I think that there's a lot of opportunity

and work to be done in terms of getting more players licensed within the space and showing them the clear frameworks to basically continue to operate within this market. Last thing I would say is that, you know, I think that while the commodity side, I would imagine, would be out of scope in the net new legislation that we will see, I do think that there's really interesting conversations for us to have about how broker-dealers and other market participants actually can transact those assets,

interact with different crypto commodities like Bitcoin. And I think that to the extent that there's opportunities to solve some of this patchwork legislation that Acting Chair mentioned at the beginning, that that would be a huge unlock for American innovation and the path forward. So thank you, guys. Christine Parlour: Thank you for having me. Just as an apology to any lawyers in the room, I'm not a lawyer. So when I use the word "security" or anything like this, I'm basically talking the way an economist would.

It's something that people buy and sell because they think it has value. So I realize that that's a different world. But okay, so how do I think about markets? I think about people trying to access markets, and typically they go through an intermediary. Then I think about the actual performance of the market, what the characteristics are. And I think about what they're actually trading. And this is actually a very difficult problem in crypto, sort of by backward induction. What people are going to be trading in crypto markets

typically is not designed or developed in the U.S. And so the usual restrictions or the usual things that the SEC does to ensure that everyone knows what's being traded, at the moment, we don't know. Right. We don't even know why these things have value. So this is sort of a difficult problem that has to be solved. Then there's the question of how markets conduct themselves. And to some extent, we know how continuous limit order markets should work. We sort of understand that. What we don't understand

is exactly how automated market makers, for example, should work. And that's a different thing altogether. We also don't know how those two systems should interact when it comes to things like what is the price at the moment. Well, it depends. Am I in blockchain time? Am I in real time? Right. And so this is -- this is sort of complicated. Now, the thing that the SEC has always done, I think, really, really well, which is to look off to people who have a little bit of money to invest but are not fabulously sophisticated about it.

And what does that mean? That means they're going through an intermediary to access the market. And it's got to be the case that the intermediaries that most people who are just trying to invest in these assets go through are intermediaries that are safe and secure and they don't just blow up overnight. So that's something that I think the SEC should really, really focus on. Unfortunately, because this is a global asset class, you cannot prevent me. I don't think. Maybe you can. I don't know.

You can't prevent me from having some sort of wallet and accessing a blockchain directly and doing whatever. And so in the past, we've sort of used financial levels as essentially being denoting sophistication. In this world, what denotes sophistication is whether or not you're able to basically put a wallet that's non-custodial and sort of do your own thing. And so I think, really, the focus should be on how usual people who have a little bit of money and aren't too sophisticated, how they access the market,

and to make sure that that's safe. Gregory Tusar: Those are great points. I will also start with a thank you. It's such a critical, critical time for exactly this kind of engagement and to be able to have an open and transparent dialogue. And so it's great to be here, and we appreciate the opportunity to engage. I was also encouraged by, in the opening remarks, the reference to Reg ATS. I started my career actually on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in 1992 and had the fortune of watching a lot of the rules

and regs that were referenced actually coming into being. And ATS, out of all of those, probably had the most impact, I think, because it encouraged competition. And I think, if there's one thing we've learned from how crypto works today, it's that competition has a lot to do with making markets orderly and well-functioning. So to me, this is a moment when we have a generational opportunity, I think, in a lot of ways, to really think back to first principles about the things that are most important --

investor protection, fair and orderly markets, safety and soundness of assets -- but using a lot of new tools and techniques to take a market that already is pretty efficient, but operationally make it even more efficient and more transparent and easier to comply and easier to show that, you know, customer assets are where they're supposed to be and that they're protected. But there are new and novel ways to do that that I think will actually make markets even better and afford even more protections to the end retail users.

Katherine Minarik: Well, I echo everyone's thanks to the commission and the commissioners for having us here today. It's a real pleasure to be here as a representative of the crypto industry, and in particular, as a representative of decentralized finance, or DeFi. In many ways, DeFi shares a lot of the mission that the commission -- that drives the commission -- including making markets more fair and efficient and protecting the participants in those markets. So, Nick, I really appreciate the framing of this question,

specifically focusing on the what or the activity that is inside or potentially outside the SEC scope, and very much setting aside the question of what is a security or a securities transaction, which does have some real limits under existing law, but we'll see how that law develops. There are a few activities in particular that I think rightly sit on the outside of the bounds of the commission's authority over crypto trading, and in particular, that would include peer-to-peer transactions

and the provision of self-custody products that are the infrastructure for those transactions. In securities law, we often regulate intermediaries in some -- well, in no small part -- because the nature of the relationship with users, between those users and the intermediaries, presents very particular risks: custody of assets, access to confidential information, exercising discretion on behalf of those participants, acting as counterparties. All of those things have great value but come with risks.

But many of those risks substantially or entirely disappear when, for example, a participant in a transaction retains custody or control of their own assets, and the transaction is self-directed by that participant, and it takes place on a public ledger like a blockchain. And that's the heart of much of DeFi technology. So I'll note that peer-to-peer transactions are not a new thing even for securities. If you go back in time to when we had paper stock certificates, often there were blanks on those pieces of paper

that could be filled out in ink to do a peer-to-peer transaction of that stock certificate. But as we've moved securities transactions into the digital age, we've somewhat taken that element of simplicity and efficiency away from the markets, and DeFi now gives us a chance to put some of that back in. So the point is that just because a new technology allows people to transact without an intermediary does not mean that we can or should regulate that technology, that infrastructure, as if it is an intermediary --

because it's not. Because the activity, to go back to Nick's question, of that intermediary doesn't exist. Because the intermediary itself does not exist. So there may be longer discussions today on particular categories of assets and how that trading would work on DeFi -- in particular, tokenized stock, where certain rights will travel with those assets -- but there are many solutions that the blockchain could provide for that, and that could be solvable in any number of ways. It doesn't mean that peer-to-peer securities

transactions necessarily have to fit within the existing regimes of an exchange model or even an ATS model. Richard Johnson: Thank you. It is an honor to be here. I'd like to thank the Commission and the Crypto Task Force and my fellow panelists. I think we have a tremendous opportunity now with the new administration in place that is more open to innovation and discussing out a framework for digital assets. We have the opportunity to correct the policy gaps of the past and design a framework with clear rules

that encourages fair and orderly markets, protects investors, promotes innovation, and cements the U.S. position as a leader in digital assets. What I would like to discuss today is how we can move to a federal regulatory regime that can take us away from that patchwork we've heard about of 50 different state regulators, money transmission licenses, BitLicenses, trust banks, trust companies, and so forth, and the general lack of openness that has discouraged innovation, increased costs, reduced efficiency, distorted markets,

and ultimately has failed to protect investors. I believe that we should adapt our existing regulatory structures to rapidly create a federal rules-based framework for crypto trading. Over the previous -- I know you mentioned six years, Nick, maybe six years, four years, whatever the number is -- we've wasted time, and I think we've got some catching up to do. We've got a system in place now that for decades investors have accessed capital markets through regulated intermediaries like broker-dealers,

and over the years, this framework has evolved, correcting and adapting as markets have changed, as Commissioner Peirce just mentioned, and I think it's now time that the broker-dealer regime further evolves to incorporate crypto and digital assets. Of course, this is not to say that the existing regulations are perfect. That's kind of a mantra that we heard over the last four years, that we don't need new rules, we just need people to follow the rules. Well, that's clearly false.

There's no doubt that new and updated rules are required and that Congress will likely need to pass new laws, along with input from the SEC, other regulators like the CFTC. And we need to kind of decide here, and I hope to be a part of that conversation, how we can come together and modernize the regulatory framework and the market structure for crypto trading. Chelsea Pizzola: I just want to echo everyone's thanks. Thank you to the Commission and to the Crypto Task Force for having me on behalf of Cumberland DRW,

and thank you to my fellow panelists as well. I'm just going to touch on Howie for a minute, trying not to overlap too much with the first panel, but I think just to touch on where it overlaps with secondary market trade. I think in terms of what's in and what's out of scope, there have been multiple courts that have ruled, and I think it seems hopefully uncontroversial at this point to say that when we're talking about non-tokenized assets, but just natively digital assets, those aren't inherently securities.

You need to look at when you're applying Howie, it needs to be done on a sort of a transaction-by-transaction basis, looking at the facts and circumstances of the particular transaction and saying, does it meet the Howie test? And I think when we do that with secondary market transactions, I think we see that even if the initial sale of a token may have met the Howie test, when we look in the secondary markets, we see that typically there are multiple reasons why a transaction in those markets may fail the Howie test.

And so, for example, we've seen multiple circuits rule that if you don't have pooling of investor funds for the purposes of development of the network and for purposes of sort of a profit-making endeavor, then you don't have horizontal commonality, which the Sixth and Seventh Circuits in particular have required. And so without that, you just don't have the common enterprise prong of Howie. And you might say, well, some courts have said vertical commonality is enough. I think that just gets us into sort of a morass of confusion.

And I think to the point that a couple of panelists have made, we really need clear rules of the road. And so I think to say that if you don't have pooling, then you don't have a common enterprise, so there's no investment contract under Howie, I think is just -- that's a clear rule of the road that people can follow that I think would be really helpful. So just something practical that people could look to. And I think there have been multiple courts from Binance to Ripple, even though Ripple wasn't looking

at secondary market transactions. But I think still saying if you don't have investors having an expectation that their funds are going to go to the issuer or promoter to be used in a profit-making endeavor with respect to the network, then you just don't have either a common enterprise or you don't have an expectation of profits. But either way, you don't have an investment contract under Howie. And so I think that could just be a really helpful piece of -- we can get into sort of mechanics

for how the Commission might provide clarity in the second session -- but I think that would just be a really helpful sort of piece of guidance or piece of rulemaking or just clarity that the Commission could provide that I think could really help in sort of secondary markets when we're looking at what's in and what's out of scope. Jon Herrick: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to thank the Commission as well for having us, the Task Force, fellow panelists, and Nick for your time and effort in arranging this

and organizing this. I think I want to start by addressing crypto more broadly -- crypto trading. I think it's important when we talk about it that the surface area is so vast that, again, at least in my mind, the taxonomy matters a lot when we're talking about specific use cases with respect to using some of these emerging technologies to improve existing regulated securities markets or as we look to open up more broader investor access to some of the assets that have emerged from crypto.

I think I want to start, though, by kind of laying out, you know, I think there's three kind of key principles if you look back at any market that has thrived and sustained time. And, you know, they're kind of basic principles, but I think they really matter, I think, with the purpose of what we'll talk about today. The first is trust, right? And I think market participants need trust in order to be able to interact with a counterparty that they otherwise wouldn't be able to if they weren't,

you know, knowing of them or weren't introduced to them. That trust is kind of the backbone of any successful market over time. You know, participants also -- they need to be trusted that they'll be protected against fraud and manipulation and misappropriation of funds and trust that they're on a level playing field with other market participants. The second one is liquidity, and I think liquidity is important because liquidity is a measure of a market and how it stands up both in times of calm

and in times of stress. And liquidity is achieved really through looking at, you know, what are the objectives of the market in terms of promoting efficient risk transfer services from one participant to another. And, you know, that results in depth in size, depth in price, typically through the collective interest of many participants coming together to form that price discovery. And, you know, lastly, I think resiliency. And resiliency is something that comes with time. It has never been more important than it is

in the information age we live in today. And really, you know, is not indicative that a market can't innovate and evolve. In fact, it's the opposite, right? You have to adopt new technologies. You have to evolve with the world around you as new things get introduced to sort of be resilient and stand the test of time. I want to thank Chairman Uyeda for the shoutout in his introduction talking about the exchange. I feel like it's, you know, there's no better story than that, right?

And the evolution of the New York Stock Exchange over its 230-plus year history -- you know, there's many, many, many phases. And I think, you know, one of the things that I thought would be good to share is nothing more, I think, relevant than the current phase we've found ourselves in the last decade after Intercontinental Exchange acquired the NYSE. They made a concerted effort and a bet to sort of overhaul the entire technology of the exchange -- the back end, if you will. And it's so important because I think

when people think of the New York Stock Exchange, they think of the six pillars of the facade of our building or our iconic trading floor. But if you were to look underneath the hood, you would find a highly sophisticated, state-of-the-art technology stack that literally gets tested every day and is at the cutting edge of what's pushing markets forward. And, you know, I think we've been reminded of that this past week as the broader market in terms of, you know, you have to be ready for the unexpected

and be ready to stand up and provide those risk transfer and services. And, you know, I think it's important to point out now because these are the times when you need resiliency, right? And you need to trust that counterparties will be there when you need them to and infrastructure will be there when you need them to. And I think a lot of that would not have been possible without competition, without the adoption of new technologies. But it also reminds me of the role that regulation plays in it, right?

Regulation has a way of keeping the market participants accountable to one another and accountable to a North Star that is established by principles like the ones I mentioned. And so I think it's just -- it seemed evident to mention with regards to all of us being around this table today -- it affirms the role regulation has to play in terms of helping pave a path forward and, you know, helping, you know, bring some of these new technologies into other markets in new and exciting ways, as well as open up more investor access

to some of the unique assets coming out of crypto. Thank you. Tyler Gellasch: Hi. The benefit of going last is I get to hear all the smart things other people said and say, yes, yes, yes. So I'll start with a couple of things. First is, look, we're talking about trading financial assets. As it turns out, we have lots of expertise in this room here, in this room out here. I'm looking at former commissioners of another agency and commissioners here. There's so much expertise in trading financial assets.

We aren't starting with a blank slate here. We know some functions have to happen when you're trading financial assets. We know that, you know, investors are going to go to someone to act as their broker. And they may believe that they would want maybe that broker to be looking out for their best interests. There's common law -- centuries of common law -- about agency principle and a fiduciary duty that attaches to that. You know, that's been put into a rule by FINRA and MSRB as a best execution rule.

We've learned a lot from trading these assets. And I want to pick up on something you said a moment ago, which is resiliency and trust being really important things. Those are not necessarily functions of just competitiveness. Those are like the byproducts of also effective regulation. You know, we've learned in those other financial products that most of our rules, both at this agency and others, come out of crises, right? They come out of abuses. We see that different trading centers for decades and decades

and decades have different prices and, hey, maybe their intermediaries are ripping them off. So we start to get consolidated tapes 50 years ago. Then we see, hey, wait, we have a flash crash in May 6, 2010. I remember talking to many of you back then. And as it turns out, many of the folks here were like, hey, we should have some circuit breakers. We end up with a limit down rule that works on stability. We say, hey, we're worried about market access because, as it turns out, we need to know who's coming into our markets

and maybe causing abuses and manipulations. So we have a market access rule that comes from that. These are lessons we've learned in all of our markets. And I think when we talk about how to regulate trading digital assets, we should be learning pretty heavily from what we learned from trading other assets. We need to know, hey, is my broker looking out for me and my best interests and my best price or my best execution or not? Hey, how are they custodying that? Or how am I going to custody that?

These are not new problems. Now, there are certainly things about digital assets, particularly in, like, clearing and settlement and other things that may be very different. But I'll also pose not so much, too. We also have an awful lot of off-chain trading. How do we reflect that in something like a consolidated tape? So, I'll start with when we think about what's the best way to do this, we should be thinking about what the function someone is serving. Are they serving as a trading center?

Are they the exchange? Or a matching place between private participants? Are they acting as the broker? I will argue many of the folks that I interact with -- healthy markets as pensions, investment advisors, and others -- they may have great interest in trading digital assets and not investing directly because of this trust, because of the concerns with resiliency. They may feel much more comfortable going through a registered investment advisor and an ETP and relying on those protections and saying,

look, registered investment advisor, this is your problem. Like, you now have to figure out that stuff. We're relying on you for that level of expertise because we can't do it. We rely on -- so when we think about what this should look like, I say, start with the functions and then start with how do we regulate those functions today? Do we need things like best execution obligations? Absolutely. Do we need things like limit up, limit down, some circuit breakers? Yes. Do we need consolidated tapes that are on and off-chain?

Absolutely. And I know, by the way, that's going to be very controversial, but I understand it, and we have to recognize that those things arose out of those things not existing before in other financial markets, and then something went wrong. Somebody abused it. Something broke. So, that roundtable in 2018, I sat on the stage then, and I'm thrilled that we're doing this now, but we knew that there were abuses then, and hey, this commission could use to address it. And I'm thrilled that we're focusing on things

that have had bipartisan support to promote competitiveness in the equity space, in the fixed income space, and I hope we can do it here. Well, thanks for the remarks from everyone. I feel like we've got a really good, diverse set of perspectives. Gregory Tusar: I apologize -- can I make one last point? Nicholas Losurdo: Sorry, I didn't see you. Gregory Tusar: Before we leave the what, I just wanted to go back to something that the commissioner said at the beginning, which is how the sidebite,

whatever taxonomy is imposed on this world of digital assets, that it's critically important that we think about the side-by-side trading of these, because even though, for the purposes of this discussion, securities are in scope, I can almost guarantee that day one, there will be discussions about how those are traded in the same order book with tokenized money market funds and things that are deemed commodities. And so, at the highest level, you could imagine a world where dual registration solves a lot of those things,

but at the mechanical level -- where is that an ATS, is that whatever this new category that passes through the fit bill is, et cetera -- those are critical issues that I think we have to begin with the end in mind in terms of coming up with solutions for, because it will almost certainly be a day one issue as this evolves. Nicholas Losurdo: Anyone else want to jump in on that? Christine Parlour: If I could, yeah. It's not clear that USD is going to be the natural numeraire, and this is a huge problem,

and so somebody has got to think through what the solution is. It's too difficult for me, but. Tyler Gellasch: I want to pick up one thing, too. I thought you were going to something David said earlier, and I wanted to pick up and agree violently with it. I think the fight over jurisdiction has been extremely troubling and disappointing, and one of the things I worry about -- same thing with what's a security and what may be something immediately adjacent to it -- we saw in a pretty clear example in the flash crash,

was something in another market triggering a different related market. I can't think of a better example. There are lots of those things that happen day to day between options and equities and various swaps. We obviously saw another when we have equity derivative positions by someone get wildly overconcentrated, spread across a couple of banks, and crater the market for a few minutes and hurt a lot of people. And so one of the things I think we really do have to worry about is, one, within products, what gets defined,

but also across agencies. Thank you. Nicholas Losurdo: Anyone else? No? Well, let's move on to the who for a moment. We talked about the what, and I have some ideas where in session two we can maybe elaborate on the what a little bit, particularly on your point there, Greg. But for the who -- you know, traditionally, the SEC is regulating in the trading space brokers and exchanges and transfer agents and adjacent capacities like clearing agencies -- who should the SEC be focused on with respect to crypto trading?

And to the extent there is maybe an ordering of priority, what does the panel think that ordering of priority should be first? Like, who should go first? Who should the SEC be focusing on first? And to the extent you have a why, why is that? Tyler Gellasch: Well, I'll say if you're a would-be investor in a digital asset, that you're going to call or communicate with someone to help you buy that, right? And so I would focus on them first, right? Because that's the interface. And so to me, that's the role that's posed by a broker.

And now in the digital asset space, they may then collapse the next several roles into one entity. And I think we have to explore why. I mean, certainly eliminating all the intermediaries and making sure that they're all under one roof saves costs. You can consolidate the profit centers. It certainly saves oversight. But there are reasons why right now we have rules segregating them. So I would start with my first order of priorities are, frankly, having brokers with things that are registered with a regulator.

It could be a FINRA or someone like that. But, you know, basic obligations: know your customer, know the products. That doesn't mean you have to know the products in something more than, like, a 15c2-11 way, by the way. And that's an automated quotation rule. The commission's been wrestling with it for years. I apologize. But bipartisan recognition that, you know, if you're going to make quotations in a marketplace, you should have an understanding of what it is -- or at least an up-to-date understanding

as much as you can. That might not be great. It may not be from the issuer, but it is what it is. I think we need to make sure that the brokers know who they're interacting with. They now kind of know what they're interacting in. They kind of have some fiduciary duty to the customer. That might be my members, right, who want to engage in this space. That's a duty of best execution. And by the way, the minute you impose that duty of best execution, you bring a ton more competitiveness and efficiency

to the marketplace. Because one of the biggest challenges right now is if I go to that entity, and that entity may have a wildly inferior price to someone else, I'll get an execution on that entity, and that may be far worse than what I would get if I was in an equity space where that broker-dealer has to survey a public tape or the consolidated proprietary feeds that they've been putting together and do that. So for me, it's having that broker-level oversight where you know what your customer is,

you know who your customer is, you know what it is you're trading, you have the obligation to look out for them, and you have a reference so that they have some form of a tape so that they can do that job -- so they can look out to the other venues and figure what's best. Because I will say that is a major inhibitor for some of the largest -- particularly if you think of those like public pension funds and others who have fiduciary obligations and state restrictions -- those are the things

that are going to act as barriers to them. And part of the reason why their interfaces with digital assets are largely through regulated traditional securities firms. Gregory Tusar: I agree with that. I think that starting with brokers makes the most sense. I, you know, we appreciated the opportunity to respond to the request for information. And in that, we suggested that in the panoply of potential structures that could evolve between commodities and securities and so forth, that broker-dealer and ATS,

from a pattern-matching perspective, matches closest to the activities -- at least if we're looking at activities first. What we do today in terms of those things that are, you know, dealing with clients, and those things that are matching orders, and those sorts of things integrated in a way that allows for the benefits of a straight-through processing and settlement and all of those things. But those regulations seem closest to us in terms of, you know, so we would start there. Dave Lauer: Good. Yeah, I think that --

I guess I can agree with, like, starting with the broker. I'm not sure that I have a good conception, though, of how to prioritize this. But I do have sort of a maybe more of an end state in mind, which is I think that we want to, to the greatest extent possible, bring crypto trading on exchange. And in order to do that, there's a lot that needs to happen. But all of it seems very doable, especially within sort of the current regulatory system, without needing to -- without really needing to go too far down

the path of new legislation or anything. We could take existing disclosure standards and the SEC -- and I know I'm maybe, like, treading on, like, recommendations, and I'm trying not to do that -- but, you know, there are -- I think the SEC can do a lot with guidance to bring disclosure standards and registration standards to the point where you can start to get things registered. And the SEC can say, we want this to be with national securities exchanges to the greatest extent possible,

and therefore we're going to allow for trading of both securities and non-security assets. And at the same time, expand the concept of special purpose broker to also allow brokers to custody non-security crypto assets and crypto security assets and traditional securities. I think if you want to bring crypto trading into the world in which you have investor protection and investor trust -- and that word is so important: trust -- and you want this industry to expand from that, like, Austin, that number of 85 percent,

that says it all, right? And if we want to increase the share of U.S. share of trading and U.S. share of custody, you need to do things that give investors confidence that they can transact in a way in which they're protected, in which they know that there's disclosure and they can understand exactly what they're transacting, and to have custody solutions that make sense -- including independent, you know, custody entities being independent from exchanges. You know, there are reasons that the securities laws

have evolved to where they're at, and I'm not saying they are perfect in any way, but I agree that they do provide a good foundation to then grow from with this new type of asset. Jon Herrick: One thing I was going to just mention about any of these topics -- I think precision, high degree of precision matters in terms of what it is we're really referring to with respect to, you know, a digital asset or crypto being on or off exchange. I mean, one can make the argument now that ETFs have been approved, right?

Investors have very open access and very, very efficient access to the largest of the crypto assets through ETF providers. And in many ways, the execution cost there is pretty remarkable, you know, as measured in low single digit, you know, all-in execution costs in terms of crossing the spread. But if we're talking about efficiencies for other purposes -- like, you think of the world of that ETF space, and, you know, we'll talk later about this in more detail -- there's a tremendous amount of efficiencies

that could be gained just from a collateral and capital perspective in terms of, you know, allowing certain SEC regulated entities to handle some of these assets. And so I think being precise about what it is that we're asking for -- I think, and I think this comes more from a practitioner view -- is really important, because I think that's where some of these wins will show up, is in these specific use cases where we either want to broaden access to an asset that, you know, has been deemed a commodity token

or has been well established, or we want to look at ways that we can leverage a specific technology that's inherent in the crypto space. Nicholas Losurdo: Austin, I'd like to hear from you. And then Richard, I think you're the only representative of an actual BD, so I'd love to hear from you after too. Austin Reid: Great. Yeah, appreciate it. I know, I feel like I'm on Jeopardy up here. We've got a lot of participation, which is awesome. Yeah, I think I agree with a lot of the points that were made.

But I think there's still, like, some fundamental questions in terms of, like, defining and thinking through what this looks like in the digital assets space, based on the existing market structure. Right. I would almost question, like, what is a broker within this space? Right? Because basically, when you're looking at the existing crypto exchanges -- and I understand that we're mostly focused now on what, like, a tokenized future would look like -- right, many players are playing the role of,

like, an integrated broker, exchange, clearinghouse, and custodian in different areas. And I think that from our perspective, what we would advocate for -- and I think is similar to a lot of different people in this panel -- is basically just the path to register for those different services that you can offer within this space. And I think that the question that I have -- and if I dive deeper in terms of why this asset class may be slightly more different, and what we should be thinking about in relation to this space --

is I think it's important to remember that these are bearer assets. Right. And so when we talk about custody being integrated into other different trading platforms, if I talk about our clients -- our big institutions who are active within the cryptocurrency markets -- like, what they want is tri-party custody. What they want is more bank participation within that side of the space to basically remove some of that centralized choke points and risk. And I think that it's important for us to think through,

are there centralized choke points and risk? And are there unique aspects of these assets that actually bring more risk than we do have in other spaces? And then how do we make sure that different institutional or retail market participants -- obviously important -- are able to basically delineate those roles and responsibilities and get the appropriate investor protection there? Richard Johnson: So Nick, the question was, who should the SEC be focusing on? Well, I think the answer is the investor.

That should be the number one focus. And then we've had a few panelists just now saying, well, the broker-dealer regime is how investors typically access markets, and Texas Capital is a digital securities broker-dealer regulated by FINRA and the SEC. And I think that this regime does have a lot to offer. We have -- as I said -- the regime's been around for many years. We have rules around safeguarding customer assets, record-keeping, best execution, and so forth. So then we're thinking about the investor,

and if the investor's coming through a broker-dealer, in my seat, I've got to think about what I've got to -- best execution obligations. So my customer here wants to execute Bitcoin or Ether or whatever it is. Where can I route this order for them? Maybe it's to Coinbase, and I can get best execution there, or maybe it's to Uniswap. So I think in this world, the broker-dealer takes on a lot of that responsibility of, in the same way that we do now when it comes to best execution,

we need to figure out what are the best venues that we can provide access to our customers for. So, and then, you know, another consideration is, you know, what are the custody arrangements? Is it going to be through a clearing broker, perhaps for the cash? Perhaps, you know, we'll need other entities if there's stablecoins, and certainly if there's crypto involved. So I think once you start looking at the broker-dealer regime, it all trickles down to everything else -- custody, exchanges, and so forth.

So I don't think we can really start with one thing. We have to tackle them all, kind of, you know, at the same time. Nicholas Losurdo: Katherine, go ahead, yeah. Katherine Minarik: I would feel remiss if I didn't ask the flip side of Austin's question when he said, what is a broker, and say, what is not a broker? There is not always a broker, and there doesn't have to be. That's one tiny piece of clarity that we have gotten from the courts in securities law related to crypto trading in the last couple of years.

Also, shout out to Coinbase's submission to the task force -- footnote 4. I had not seen that reference before to the 1988 amendments to the Exchange Act that, where Congress said, let's make sure that participants can participate in transactions without dealers. Right? So this concept of not always all of these intermediaries having to exist has also been around for a while. But for all of the reasons we've just discussed about why brokers are regulators -- or regulated -- all of the trust that you have to have

when you are handing over your transaction to a broker, for all of those reasons, if a participant has a safe way to not hand over that trust and not take on those risks, if we have that technology, we should allow that technology to exist. Nicholas Losurdo: Yeah, that's a good point. Christine, do you have a comment? Christine Parlour: Yeah, just two quick comments. So I completely agree that we want to make sure that when retail investors try and access markets and they go through an intermediary,

the intermediary doesn't disappear in the middle of the night. Absolutely. That said, there are a lot of concepts that are great, like best execution, but almost seem -- that have to be completely rethought in this new world. It's really, really complicated. And so that has to be sort of carved out. And the other thing that I just wanted to point out is the reason why we think that it's good for people to invest in markets is because they're taking the other side of a deal. And the deal is essentially something to do

with capital formation. Now, what's weird about a lot of these assets is they're not dividend-paying stocks, and they're not cash-flow based. They're basically, in some very funky way, incorporating the inside of a firm that's being sold to people. And so it would be really useful if there was a sort of careful delineation of what should be -- what information would be useful to people. They're buying something that essentially they're going to sell. And that's the source of the value,

not because the thing is going to pay them cash. And so there has to be almost like a new accounting regime that tells people what they need to know to evaluate that resale risk. And that's a big problem. But I think information -- that kind of information -- very, very important because these are not cash-flow bearing assets. Nicholas Losurdo: Go ahead, Greg. Gregory Tusar: If I can just agree on the point about -- you asked what should be scoped in -- just to say what should be scoped out.

Meaning that, you know, the president's executive order, and in many of these conversations, if you are not in an intermediated framework, it should preserve the right to self-custody and for there not to need to be intermediation where the end user wants to retain custody of the private keys. That's one thing I like to say. And my other comment -- just going back to something that was referenced earlier about -- and I don't want to rabbit hole yet on the order protection rule if we're not ready to go there.

Nicholas Losurdo: But if you can go for a minute, go ahead. Gregory Tusar: Because to me, it's one of those things that in going through that archaeology of which rules were put in place when -- I remember precisely why that happened. And there were, you know, the intermarket trading system was working a particular way. We were trading through one another, and so on and so forth. And so the rule was put in place. I'm of the, you know, point of view -- going back to the discussion on Reg ATS --

that we were just on the cusp of the competition that that rule put in place causing us to have the competition necessary to force people to see when and where their brokers went to the best price, and how algorithms worked, and how smart routers worked, and all of those kinds of things. And I think I'm of the opinion that that competition would have gotten us to the right place without the need for all of the things that came along with the order protection rule. And the reason I say that is -- and it goes back

to what have we learned from how Bitcoin trades today -- when we look at how Bitcoin trades, particularly now that we have the ETF and what happens in the trading window when there's creations and redemptions, it trades a lot like a large cap stock without any of the -- without any of the belt and suspenders and other things that are happening. It has a similar, you know, similar transaction cost. In fact, it's less than many of the top decile of the S&P 500. And I say that because in this moment,

when we're going back to first principles, I think we have to ask, like, some things are going to be really important -- investor protection and how we do segregation and so forth -- but I think we have to examine each and every one to say, is this thing really still needed? And that, to me, was a good example, which is why I wanted to bring it up. Richard Johnson: So I'd really like to add on to that, because I think it's important when you talk about the order protection rule -- which is one example here -- I think it's important

that everyone remembers that we have a -- we'll soon have a new SEC commissioner, a chairman who was a commissioner 19 years ago and was dissenting against Reg NMS. In his dissent -- this is Commissioner Atkins -- he specifically referenced the order protection rule as the reason for his dissent and noted that it would focus innovation around speed, which indeed it had. And I agree with you, Greg. I think we would definitely have got there anyway without that. So it was -- whilst it was needed

for a moment in time there -- I don't think that's needed anymore. And we certainly shouldn't consider an order protection rule for crypto. I've also got a quote here from Commissioner Peirce from quite recently, "We ought not be bound by the way we have long regulated existing financial markets. We should welcome the opportunity to re-evaluate existing regulation in the light of these questions and ensure its appropriateness for both traditional and new markets." So I think, you know, what I take from that

is that we can learn a lot from crypto markets that can improve our traditional markets as well, like the order protection rule. Another thing that we had in Reg NMS was the ban on locked and crossed markets. Well, we have locked and crossed markets in crypto all the time. And, you know, guess what? They unlock and they uncross, and things seem to work fine. So I think we've got a lot of lessons. It's not just about imposing, you know, TradFi rules on crypto. It's about what can we learn

from the evolution of markets from crypto and look at the overall rules that we have, including TradFi. Nicholas Losurdo: Ty, go ahead. Tyler Gellasch: Yeah, I think I want to pick up on something a little bit earlier too. So for those who don't know, the order protection rule is a backstop for best execution. But rather than being related to brokers, it somehow applies to the exchanges and says you can't do something that you would otherwise do, which is a weird way to go about it. But there were good reasons at the time to take this approach.

One of the things you sort of think about is if you have some of the disclosures we now have -- bipartisan, adopted during the first Trump administration -- you know, 605 and 606, which are order routing and execution relating disclosures. If you see trade confirms that actually tell the customer how their orders are routed, if you have, for lack of a better phrase, a useful tape that they can go back and do a transaction cost analysis on so they know if their broker is really doing a good job or not --

because that's where institutional investors are going to be focused on -- I need to know if they're doing a good job for me or not. And if you hear even many of the largest institutional investors in the equities markets are saying the order protection rule doesn't help us now as much as it may hurt us. But knowing how their orders are handled, knowing what the real market looks like from public tapes, and being able to perform an analysis -- they can actually police themselves. So, you know, I think that that's a great example of --

the order protection rule exists as a best execution protection, but it's kind of focused on the wrong entities and sort of in a haphazard way that we could say, hey, maybe that's not the thing here. But it does put more focus on the need for the transparency of orders and executions across, frankly, on and off chain and across all of the different venues. Jon Herrick: One of the things to remember with at least a piece of how OPR ended up being implemented was it borrowed from how many of the ECNs

prior to Reg NMS routed to one another. And so there was kind of this commercial adoption of, hey, you might have a better price. I'm trying to get a better price for my client. Let's connect and we'll route to one another. And so the implementation of that and the requirement of it relied on private connectivity from one exchange to another. And I think that's something, too, to look at. I was thinking about this when Richard was talking about, you know, best X from a broker-dealer perspective

with respect to Bitcoin or Ethereum. It's really interesting to think about what does that look like in a world where a broker-dealer could have a crypto asset alongside an ETF, right? And I think one of the things that I just find fascinating is the spread plus execution cost in basis point difference. Between ETFs, the most liquid ETFs, and the cash crypto market. And there are different elements of what you can do if you own, you know, a Bitcoin, right? You can self-custody it. It's on chain.

But to me, those are just interesting things. And what is it about all of the built-up regulatory constructs that exist in U.S. equities, the adaptation, right? Don't discount for one second that market participants, whether they live in securities land, in equities, or in crypto, like the practitioners in the market are very thoughtful and mindful individuals that have economic objectives that are first principles of trading. That, you know, if there's a will, there's a way. And so regulation often is set,

and then market structure evolves around it and becomes something that really, you know, might not have been intended originally. And I think many of us that are close to equities feel that way, right? There are many things about NMS and OPR that have led to sort of the law of unintended consequences. But I would just say, like, coupling NMS too much with crypto trading, we also have to be mindful of not just addressing the things with NMS that we want to address, even though it's been tried many, many times.

You know, they're kind of two different things. Nicholas Losurdo: And Jon, you raise a good point there regarding NMS aspects that perhaps we should absolutely not carry forward with respect to crypto trading. And I think there are probably, in my mind, perhaps more in that category than there are things we should maintain. Anyone want to get into that? Any other particular ideas? OPR, perhaps, on the table? But what else are on folks' minds? Dave, go ahead, yeah. Dave Lauer: I can start.

There's probably most of it that should not. I think I would agree with you on that, Nick. I agree that NMS served a purpose at a time, and that markets have changed. And if we're thinking about a decentralized system, fundamentally, in cryptographic securities and cryptographic assets, it's hard to impose our centralized mindset on that, I think. There are many ways in which I don't think it's possible. Now, I think there are ways to consider if we're bringing tokenized securities on exchange

and providing a framework to support the existence of tokenized securities side by side with traditional securities, there are probably things we can think about in terms of maybe market data consolidation. But it's always going to be imperfect because these things will also always trade in other places. And it's not just that it will trade in other places domestically, but it's a global system. And so I find the idea of trying to envision how you consolidate that from a regulatory perspective

to be one that's very difficult to kind of get my head around. I don't think that that should prevent the SEC and the CFTC from working together to build platforms to collect data from all of these places or anything that might be under their purview could trade. And to look much more like a data-centric and data-forward regulator that is, if not collecting it themselves, working with excellent vendors in the industry to accomplish it. Because if you consider the state of the art right now

in firms like Cumberland, you know, I would think of DRW as probably having state-of-the-art data systems and analytic systems, right? And then you think about what regulators have today. We're so far apart. I find that really disturbing. And I find it really hard to imagine how you can regulate and oversee a market without having those kinds of capabilities. And it really gets into questions around what I think Reg NMS has done well through this consolidation is to help to at least surveil markets

and address market manipulation issues. I think market manipulation is a real fundamental problem in this space. And I wish I had a good answer. I don't have a great answer for how you get there. But I do think that that needs to be front and center in any regulatory efforts is understanding and measuring and collecting in order to figure out how to police and enforce issues around market manipulation. Nicholas Losurdo: Well, and in many cases, there's a public blockchain that could be referred to, right?

Does anyone want to tackle that? Dave Lauer: The fact that this is all on chain should be like a panacea for analytics and data. And yet, you know, I don't think regulators have gotten there yet. Nicholas Losurdo: You can keep riffing if you want or if anyone else wants to jump in with that. Tyler Gellasch: Well, it's sort of, I mean, there are some analogs, right? So to the extent that you have, for example, you know, transactions that don't occur on exchanges end up being reported someplace. Right.

And so you have a data stream that the world's can reference, regulators can reference. You know, I appreciate, by the way, the pitch for the SEC having like a MIDAS system for digital assets. I'm all for it. Let's go get some economists working on it. Nicholas Losurdo: Are you going to spin up that business? Are you going to be [inaudible]. Tyler Gellasch: The staffing proposals? I'm not sure how that's working right now, but we'll see how it goes. But one of the things

I think we really want to focus on is for Reg NMS, I would say there's a lot that goes with it too, right? Like, for example, you do have mandatory disclosures that people are able to see. You get to know in general how your broker's doing. You get now for institutional investors, you get to know really specifically what they're doing for you. You get to see the trading venues, how good a job they're doing. Those are things that I think should be carried forward. Maybe not the way they're structured in NMS,

but that function needs to happen. Because again, I'm coming at this from if you're trying to get sophisticated institutional investors, are going to be perhaps a little bit less cavalier than maybe the wealthy individual who's out on his E-Trade account after finishing his day as a dentist. But, or otherwise, those folks who have fiduciary obligations are going to be really cautious about interacting with firms that they don't have a regulatory backstop for trust, and they don't have a regulatory backstop for resilience.

So they're going to feel a lot more comfortable dealing with someone who's registered as a broker-dealer than someone who's not. They put, you know, they can explain to their boards why they hired an investment advisor that has a registered investment advisor, that has a regulatory framework that their boards understand. Then, hey, this is someone who's not a registered investment advisor, but they're going to take care of this stuff for us. Gregory Tusar: I just want to agree with that.

I think that particularly as the functions, you know, collapse into an entity that, you know, there are potential conflicts of interest, the best way to cure those potential conflicts of interest is with disclosures. And whether that's a trade confirmation or, you know, the sorts of things that 605 and 606 and all of those things give you, you know, give investors and put in their hands the information they need to be able to make educated decisions about, is this happening in my best interest or not?

And I think with those disclosures, being able to be more efficient and, you know, doing these things in a way that takes advantage of settlement and puts together, you know, some of these functions to make them operationally more seamless, I think you get the best of both. Nicholas Losurdo: Well, go ahead. Katherine Minarik: I was just going to add on to that. In addition to just thinking about multiple functions in a single entity, it's not just disclosures. When the technology advances that you end up

losing the reason for having that natural segregation, like for clearing agents, it used to be that clearing agents exist both to take, you know, custody, centrally custody assets, but perhaps also because the time for settlement took so long. Those things are disappearing. And so then it can make a lot more sense, and you are not in the risk profile that you were years ago in a crypto trading world if someone is performing those functions of a clearing agent without those risks alongside other functions.

So just to build on what Greg had said there. Nicholas Losurdo: What about using the blockchain for price discovery, transparency? Any thoughts on that? Tyler Gellasch: How much is occurring on it, right? I mean, that's one of the things that we have to know -- time horizons and how much is actually getting reported and when and in what fashion. So if you're in a world where everything is reported nearly instantaneously, and we have firms here who are making decisions in nanoseconds on trading,

and there's a lot to be made in those nanoseconds. And so if we're talking about reporting the blockchain that's measured in things that aren't nanoseconds, and positions that may or may not ever be reported, it creates a significant challenge. These aren't new challenges, by the way. We have the exact same challenges in the U.S. equities markets, right? When we have a derivative position that doesn't have to be reported, but if it was an actual equity position, it would be, we end up with opportunities

for problems like Archegos. So we have to recognize that none of these issues are particularly new. We just get a new chance to think about why we did them this way, and maybe we could do them differently. But I think the blockchain offers a great reference point, certainly a great starting point. But you also have to get to what off-chain? Are you talking about de minimis exceptions? Are you talking about de minimis on a digital asset by digital asset? Are you talking about de minimis that looks at firms?

Are you talking about a de minimis that is, hey, if this is self-custody? Because, again, I don't want to skip into another topic, but we're not just talking about the trading. We're also talking about positions. In these assets, you have our unique risks that are not unlike penny stocks, where you can have very concentrated positions and decisions being made by those concentrated positions that can materially negatively impact the other holders and those trading markets. Nicholas Losurdo: Well, let's talk about thinly

traded stocks for a minute. And Chelsea, I want to bring you in on this. So, and Ty, I think you mentioned Rule 211. Thoughts on, is that feasible? Ty, I think you may have said it doesn't really make sense. Tyler Gellasch: The other way. Nicholas Losurdo: The other way? Okay. The other way. How would that work? Chelsea Pizzola: Yeah, I mean, I think, you know, from my perspective, from our perspective, you know, I think 15c2-11, like, something like it, where, you know, you sort of have this obligation

to make sure that information is current, it's publicly available, you know, having disclosures about sort of the material aspects of a token and sort of how the underlying network works, governance, the project team, and sort of in their holdings of tokens, you know, to the point you just made, Ty, like, I think that is important. That's healthy for markets. I think there are some, you know, aspects of, you know, the current 15c2-11 that maybe don't work well for, you know, natively digital crypto assets.

You know, sort of things like, you know, you have to have financial statements of the issuer, you have to have, you know, the name and address of the transfer agent. I mean, you know, you sort of think part of the sort of value proposition of a lot of these assets is that the blockchain, you know, serves the role of a transfer agent, so you may not have that. So I think there's sort of areas where, you know, maybe we can talk a little later about, you know, an exemptive order or staff relief

or something like that that could sort of make the rule fit well with crypto assets. But I think sort of the general idea of something like a, you know, 15c2-11 type of disclosure, I think, is good for markets and that kind of transparency is helpful. Tyler Gellasch: Yeah, I know it's, like, not what you'd necessarily think. Totally agree. So I think there's an important aspect here of, like, the OTC markets do a pretty reasonable job of telling you, you know, hey, this is something for which

there's no real information available and, oh, by the way, here's something for which there is. And brokers are expected to kind of have an understanding of what's going on in that asset. And, you know, it may not be that it's issuer financial statements, but it may be, hey, you have to have a real sort of scraping of information or, hey, there has to be some notice if there's, like, hey, there might be governance changes, right? They have to be, you know, constantly sort of scraping

what I will call the rest of the world in the internet. Maybe there's third party service providers who may provide that function. I think that that is really important. I don't think that imposing the same sort of expectations you would on an equities market makes sense. Frankly, I'm not sure that investors really worry about that stuff in all of the equity space either, in the land of meme stocks. So I think it does make sense to take a step back and say you ought to know what the thing is you're trading.

And that's the point, I think, of 15c2-11 and really big information that might dramatically impact the value of that and the trading of that. And I think that that's a really good way to approach it. Richard Johnson: I'd like to comment on that as well. I agree with everything everyone's been saying here. I think 15c2-11 is a good example of how we can move forward. So going back to what we've been talking about is that, well, if the investors are coming through brokers and the broker is going to say,

well, you know, these exchanges in my best execution routing order, at the same time, we've got to make a decision. It's like, which assets are we going to offer? Obviously, Bitcoin, Ether, Solana, things like that. But then you get lower down the list. How do we decide which ones are safe, quote unquote, safe to offer customers or have this reasonable information, reasonable disclosures out there? So I think that's a useful tool. Who is making the disclosures is the question, though, for decentralized assets with no issue,

with no CEO, with no CFO. So that's, I think, one of the things we really need to tackle. It could be, you know, it could be a foundation who's behind the coin. It could be a DAO that has issued the governance token. Or maybe you'll see companies like Moody's and S&P coming into the space and doing this type of service or other third party people. But I think it's a really good framework and analogy to move forward on. Jon Herrick: I think one thing, and you were talking a bit about this,

you know, my general understanding of it. There's a pretty big difference between the listing standards in what we would consider the typical world of exchange listed securities and this world, particularly with things like ongoing listing standards and disclosures, as you were talking about. And that, I think, may work with certain constructs. The one thing I think we should all, we all have a shared interest in is making sure that what is thought of or what is pursued does not in any way export

or put at risk the SEC's jurisdiction over aspects of 90 plus years of securities regulation. That kind of plays back to those principles from before. And, you know, and that's where I say, again, like the precision really matters. Right. What it is you're talking about to some of the things Richard was mentioning, you know, I think it is pretty material here. Nicholas Losurdo: And you mentioned the word risk. Let's maybe talk about risk mitigation and some of the concepts that apply today

to actually achieve risk mitigation, whether it be net capital requirements or position limits or several other aspects that apply. Anyone want to take a stab at that? What should we carry forward? What just probably doesn't work? And let's leave it behind. Go ahead, Dave. Or, yeah, we go, Dave. Dave Lauer: Okay. Yeah. So now we're at least crossing over in my notes where I got into how, but Nicholas Losurdo: We've been in the house for a while. Dave Lauer: Yeah, it's fine. Good.

Nicholas Losurdo: We've led into that. My whole system fell apart 30 minutes ago. Sorry. Yeah. Dave Lauer: And I do get sort of to what Greg said earlier about conflicts of interest. And I think it dovetails exactly into risks. And there are some conflicts that can be cured with disclosure. And I think there are lots that cannot be cured with disclosure. And I think that that's what we have learned in the traditional finance world over a very long period of time and a lot of investor harm and a lot of, you know,

various crises that we've had to address. And I do think that the vertical integration we see in the crypto industry, I think that there are some good reasons for it and that there are some concerning reasons for it. And I don't believe it's just about the -- I'm sorry -- the prohibition. I should -- on the other side -- the prohibition of vertical integration in the traditional finance world is not just based on settlement times. There's a lot more that goes on because we have decided in the traditional finance world

that we need structural safeguards in place to control things like an exchange that trades on its own platform with a proprietary trading desk. An exchange that issues its own tokens has a real fundamental conflict, invested interest in the token's price. Combining custody with trading means the platform can hold customer funds. That was obviously a serious problem with FTX and Alameda. When one firm is the sole venue, an intermediary competition can be stifled. You can often not see the benefits of best execution,

especially if there's no affirmative obligation for it. So that could be something that could help. And, you know, it can lead to concentration, and that can lead to systemic risks. I don't think we're seeing that. And I think as long as we stay sort of sufficiently decentralized in this space, maybe that -- maybe the systemic risk issue isn't as much of an issue. But I do think that there is a reason that we have decided in the traditional finance world to structurally separate certain conflicts

rather than just depend on disclosure. And that is not to say that, you know, I'm a -- I'm a very big fan of disclosure everywhere that we can get it and transparency everywhere we can get it. But I think we've seen a lot of fallout when we have relied on disclosure first and foremost. And I don't want to see those mistakes repeated here. Nicholas Losurdo: Christine, you want to jump in? Christine Parlour: Yeah, just really quickly. I think the regulations that the SEC can do when they affect people that live in the U.S.,

that I could probably stalk if I figured out where they live, they're going to be great. They're going to make people safe. Regulations or purported regulations around the resiliency or the -- whatever -- the value proposition of specific tokens, these are things in a decentralized world that the SEC really cannot control. So, for example, things about boards of directors or governance in a world with governance tokens and swaps -- somebody can undo anything that was disclosed six months ago.

So I think it's really important for whatever the SEC decides to do to basically make clear that it has -- it can speak directly to institutions in the U.S. that are customer-facing. It can give you information about tokens and other things that are happening, but it cannot guarantee in any way, shape, or form how those things are going to turn out. Right. So telling people what the SEC is not guaranteeing is almost as important as just having a quiet guarantee in the background, just so people understand what they're facing.

Tyler Gellasch: It kind of reminds me of doing background. When I came to the Senate, I started researching the origins of the securities laws. And it reminds me of the fights that were had over whether or not the SEC should be given -- or the FTC at the time -- should be given authority to basically say if a security was blessed or whether or not, hey, it's registered and it meets these disclosure obligations and whether or not there's sort of a merits-based system. And it's an interesting discussion we're having now.

So first thing I want to say is I co-sign everything Dave said. It was brilliant, and I agreed with my panelists here so far. I think one of the changes that we're -- a little bit -- I think we have to worry a lot about not just investor protection but the competitiveness of it. And I think when we think about the competitiveness and the efficiency and the integrity and, frankly, the fairness, that's the SEC's mission. Those functions are functions of regulation. Right. Like, as you alluded to earlier,

if the SEC sets a rule, the market's going to compete to figure out how to maximize their profitability around the structure of that rule. And it doesn't necessarily work the other way around. And in the absence of a clear best execution obligation, there's a heck of a lot of not-best-execution that goes on. And we would make this market a lot more competitive if there was a more direct best execution obligation. I would argue -- you know, I spend a lot of my time on behalf of large institutional investors

thinking about how they manage counterparty risk. And, you know, these things come up when you have moments like Archegos, but these moments come up, frankly, all of the time. And sadly, my career has been marked by extreme moments of that, be it, you know, let's just call it September of 2008. Let's, you know, let's call it, frankly, every three or four or five years, there's these significant moments of counterparty risk. If you're an institutional investor and you believe in a digital asset,

it is -- and at the same time, you have perhaps a statutorily, maybe state statute, maybe regulatory-imposed fiduciary obligation -- it is extremely difficult to engage in the native space right now. Those folks at Coinbase and others who are trying to do so are finding it very challenging, in part because they don't get to say, hey, FINRA rules and these SEC structures are protecting you beyond what I may promise. Right. Going back to trust and resiliency, you know, promises are nice from financial firms,

but it's a lot better when you have the full force of the federal government ensuring that that trust exists and is well-founded. Gregory Tusar: I agree. And I, you know, I think today, you know, when we say assets are back one-for-one, it would be nice to say in the future, and, by the way, 15c3-3 and all of these things require that assets are segregated and all those sorts of things. But I do want to go back to something that Dave said, and maybe Dave, a question, which is: today, within the broker-dealer,

if we're pattern matching to broker-dealer and ATS, that variety of things happen today in the broker-dealer world where you act in a variety of different capacities and you're matching orders. And how, in your mind, is that different than, I think, what is proposed to move towards? And those conflicts of interest that happen within a broker-dealer are often cured through disclosure. We're not mandating that it all happen in this sort of broker-exchange-clearinghouse sort of taxonomy, for example.

Dave Lauer: I mean, maybe my perspective on this isn't a very popular one. I don't believe they have been cured through disclosure. I'm against -- ATS is operated by routed broker-dealers -- have been for a long time. I'm against internalization and the fundamental conflicts of interest that payment for order flow pose in the equity space. So, you know, we like to say that they have been disclosed away, but they haven't. And we like to say that we get best execution in the traditional equity space. We don't.

We get good enough execution and not best execution. I think there's a fundamental difference between those two. And I believe that there are ways, structurally, we can address those conflicts. Jon Herrick: And so, you know -- sorry -- I want to make one sort of -- actually ask a general question about the vertical integration trend that's evolved in the space. And I find myself wondering how much of that is a result of the lack of a regulator taking that industry, that emerging technology,

in early enough to help it conform in the right ways, whatever the right levels of segregation are. Because one of the things that it does pose is, going back to my best example between, hey, how do I get best price for my customer if they want access to Bitcoin? If my choices are cash on some exchange or to some bilateral counterparty on the blockchain or an ETF, you have the same problem in trading crypto assets where there's no interconnectivity -- right -- between blockchains, between vertical sort of centralized exchange models.

And I think there is some oversight needed, to the degree best ex is a principle-based goal, you know, that will have to be sort of brought in in some fashion. Tyler Gellasch: There's also a liquidity sourcing issue too, right? To the extent that if there's only one particular venue to trade it, and I'm not entirely sure that all of the trading on that may be reflected on the chain, I don't know what liquidity may be out there, right? And so, if you're an institutional investor,

there's a significant amount of risk associated with that particular digital asset. Or maybe you have a couple of places where you may be able to trade. And you, again -- without, I hate to go back to like position reporting and trade reporting -- but without sort of large position reporting and trade reporting, you don't know what you don't know. And if you're an institutional investor, that's extremely concerning in a world where governance changes can happen very quickly because of those things,

in a world where markets can move very, very quickly. And so, I just -- I want to piggyback on the top of that. Nicholas Losurdo: Austin, let's get you in. Yeah? Austin Reid: Yeah, a couple of things here. First of all, great conversation. And I think it's interesting to dive deeper onto the security side too, and think through, you know, what we can learn from the existing frameworks and regulation. A couple of things that I do just want to add though, because I think part of this is also an exercise of --

at least my inventor model right now is -- the assumption that I'm operating within is that most of these commodities are actually not going to be regulated by the CFTC -- or, excuse me, by the SEC -- wrong agency. But that you will see that most of those will actually fall out of the jurisdiction. And the question will be: will broker-dealers actually be able to transact these assets? The thing that I will add here is the -- I think striving for best execution is great. I think it is impossible

if you're just looking at the U.S. markets. And I think the data 100 percent proves that, right? And so, I think that the question for us to be asking is, if we want to be competitive at a global scale, if we want institutions to come into this market and continue to come in and trade, what is the path for us to actually compete and win volume onshore, right? And I think a couple ideas that I would flag that I think may be longer term -- but I think it does make sense for the U.S. to look at whether there is regulatory reciprocity

that you could have with different regions outside of the United States where there may be exchanges that are operating businesses within those. I think a big component of that, from my perspective -- I mean, I've probably met with 5,000 institutional customers in the past couple of years. In terms of FalconX, we have over 1,000 that are with us today. I actually hear best execution as an issue very infrequently. I think the majority of the time, the issues that I hear are counterparty risk.

And how do I basically know that my assets are safe, either on this exchange venue or with this custodian? And who is providing leverage and whose role is that within the ecosystem, right? And so, I think the broker-dealer components make a lot of sense. I think we should be focused on them. But I think we also need to recognize the reality of this asset class today, whereas you're looking at crypto commodities that are trading globally, 24-7, 365. How can we basically tie in liquidity there?

And on the tokenized security side, I'd say the biggest issue is actually the lack of any trading activity there, right? Like, there's no significant market in tokenized securities today, right? And so, if we're looking at the SEC's role in creating this market, I think the question is, how do we actually create a market that has liquidity? Because that's what institutional investors want. And I think in lieu of that happening, it's going to be very difficult to grow and scale this.

Katherine Minarik: I would love to build on where Austin was heading, because something struck me between the exchange with Dave and Greg is: how do we make sure that we're not just saying that a new solution -- say, disclosures -- is imperfect, and then reverting to the known, the one known solution, and then simply expanding and expanding and expanding the obligations of that known solution, as opposed to looking at green space and thinking, where do we actually want to be in our future innovation?

So, I certainly think that's true for segregation or not of functions in crypto trading beyond securities trading. When we think about what we've discussed, that this is global trading that is happening, it is different than anything we've seen before. And so, what is the future state that we're heading for? The same thing is true -- we touched on it a little bit -- about principles of market surveillance. Even though we all want -- we know that sunlight is good. It's good for -- it's good for markets to be open

and operating transparently and publicly and fairly. All of that makes sense, but the world is moving towards a space where granular data collection is increasingly available. And that granularity comes with sensitivity of that information, confidentiality of that information, and, frankly, uselessness of that information when we're talking about individual day-to-day economic activity. So, how are we designing our future market surveillance structures, whether that's in a securities trading regime

or a broader trading regime, to operate globally -- but assuming we don't want to -- and I certainly don't -- not march us on a path towards mass surveillance of every single corner of economic activity on the globe? I don't think that's necessary to mitigate any of the risks that any of us care about here today. All of us have a shared interest in preventing bad actors, bad activity, or severe market events. So, just kind of echoing that: what does the future state need to be, and is there more than just the tools

we already know of to get there? Richard Johnson: In terms of -- Nicholas Losurdo: Go ahead. Richard Johnson: Sorry. Thanks, Nick. I do want to pick up on one thing that Austin said, that I agree with you and disagree with you. I'm going to disagree with you about having certain assets go to the CFTC and certain assets go to the SEC. I think we need to stop pretending that it makes sense for there to be two separate regulatory agencies. They should really be merged. So, let's not -- when we make new rules --

we're not going to do that, we're not going to solve that today -- but when we make new rules, let's not exacerbate this silly separation that we have. People want to -- you know, you've got -- you can trade triple -- the TQQQ is very similar risk profile to a NASDAQ futures contract, but different regulators. So, I think we definitely -- and that was one of the issues I had with the FIT21 bill -- is that it did have this bifurcation. So, I hope we move beyond that in the new market structure bill.

But what I think you are absolutely spot on about is the global nature of this asset class, and Katherine echoed that as well. And that's clearly -- you know, a lot of these activities are outside the jurisdiction of the SEC. So, we have to recognize that the SEC can't regulate everything here. And if we start with saying, well, obviously they can't regulate global markets, then we need to understand that, well, these global markets are going to be trading anyway. And, you know, they may have different prices

in Korea or other areas -- is going to those markets best execution or not? So, I think we have to think about that. And maybe to your point, Katherine, is that there's going to be other markets that are going to be fully decentralized -- you know, no headquarters, no owners and so forth. And I don't know if it's going to be possible for the SEC to regulate these venues. And so, that's -- so we may end up having to have kind of, you know, a version of rules for the U.S. And there's going to be -- for the institutional investors

and for everyday folks who are less experienced -- they can come through a regulated broker-dealer. But we have to be aware this is a global asset class that trades 24-7. And there are going to be pockets -- you know, very, very large ones, it sounds like -- that are trading outside of the purview of the U.S. government here. Tyler Gellasch: Okay, so I have very bad flashbacks to 2000 -- late 2009 and early 2010 -- working across the park here in the United States Senate building and trying to negotiate with a very shy person --

you may have heard of him, Gary Gensler -- about what he thought cross- border derivative regulation should look like. And it went about as well for me as it did for many staff here. I apologize. And the reality is these issues aren't new. As it turns out, commodities trade globally. As it turns out, there are other trading venues outside of the U.S. jurisdiction. I think there is something you mentioned earlier about reciprocity. That in and of itself is -- as anyone who's ever been involved in that process --

sadly, I have, several, some of the people here have as well -- it's a bit of a nightmare, but it can be done. And one of the things I think we have to recognize is, much like the commodities markets that Austin just referenced, we're not doing anything that's new here. There isn't anything particular about a Bitcoin trading that's fundamentally different than trading other assets that are also regulated by other venues and other brokers and other regulators outside of our borders.

I actually go back again to the OTC marketplace for just a second, because if we think about that marketplace, you have very, very large, very, very public foreign issuers who have lots of liquidity, lots of information issued by the issuer, regulated by somebody else -- all the way down to entities that have really no existing issuer and no real transparency -- still trading on those markets. And if you go to that and try to trade on those markets, one, you may not be able to find quotations, or two, you may find a skull and crossbones on the website

actually warning you, this might not be a good idea. And if we think about how we want to approach cross-border trading, I think we can learn from some of those things. I don't think we just throw our hands up and say, yeah, we can only do what we can do. I think you do that by bilateral negotiations with other jurisdictions, much like we've had to do in other areas. It ain't fun, it takes a long time, and there's a lot of discussions that have to go back and forth, but you do your best.

Nicholas Losurdo: Let's actually go to the technology. We talked a little bit earlier about ways in which the Commission might be able to actually utilize technology, like public blockchains, to aid in its mission and regulation and perhaps even surveillance. I'm going to say something that might be a little bit controversial. Forever, the SEC has basically taken an approach where they say, "Our rules are technology neutral. We're not going to differentiate between this tech or that tech."

I think it's about time that we might have to actually change that, given the underpinnings of the technology that make something with Katherine's business different than something with Greg's business. And really welcome thoughts from the panel on that. Jon Herrick: I mean, I think, looking back historically, we were talking about order routing, and in many ways, aspects of a very prescriptive set of market structure rules like NMS did incorporate ways technology had evolved in industry.

But I think in many ways, it sort of depends. You have to separate the technological capabilities of what a said blockchain does. You were talking before about, how do you get data off of a particular blockchain? You have to think about latency differently. You have to think about who is validating transactions. How are those blocks put up? How important is ordering, right? These are very fundamental, sort of critical things that have lived in various worlds of trading for a long time. And thinking about that data source,

that golden source, is important because you really have to understand, at some point, if you want to be able to successfully -- I think we would trust in something -- you have to kind of understand what and whom is behind it. So I think the truest form of decentralized finance is a very difficult thing for any modern regulator around the world to kind of wrap their heads around. Because if you want to have access to information and be able to understand the why, it's critical to be able to go back and see those things.

Nicholas Losurdo: But when we're doing things like determining broker status, exchange status, responsibilities, best decks -- I mean, people don't even know what best X is today for equities, I would argue. So how are we going to know what it is for crypto, given all the points that have been discussed today? And when it comes to different technologies, how do we look at that? Katherine, really interested in your thoughts. Katherine Minarik: Well, I wanted to jump right back to your question on technology neutral,

because I think the reason that concept is rightly appealing is to the extent it is risk consistent. But there are new technologies sometimes that changes the risk profile. So, technology neutral when the risk is consistent regardless of the technology, but perhaps not technology neutral -- or perhaps risk consistency is the overarching principle and technology neutral is a subset of that. So I just wanted to add that piece in. I think going back to the example of self-custody wallets versus custody wallets,

you wouldn't treat them the same way, even though they're both holding an asset. Right? You wouldn't say you're technology neutral to a wallet holding an asset when the custodial risk either exists or doesn't. So that might be a really fundamental example. Nicholas Losurdo: Thoughts from anybody else? Dave, Austin? Dave Lauer: I would say this kind of gets back to like the 211 discussion earlier, you know, like, is there enough that's disclosed for the SEC to remain neutral

and to be able to remain neutral? And I think we can get there. This is where I will go down the path of disclosure and thinking that this is something that is sorely needed right now, which is this true path to registration and this disclosure standard where maybe this is yet another opportunity for regulatory cooperation with the CFTC and SEC, and maybe with global regulators. I mean, we keep talking about how these are global assets and they trade 24/7, and there are some differences, I really believe, fundamentally between what we have

traditionally seen most of our investment and trading volume in the United States. And so it seems like it's a real tremendous opportunity for global cooperation and establishing some global standards. And I thought, you know, again, back to Cumberland's piece, the written proposal with the changes to 211, I thought were really excellent and a great starting point for building off a disclosure regime that can have enough information in it that, you know, then at least investors can make their own determinations around risk

and start to get their head around it in a standardized way. Because I think a big -- one of the big problems here and one of the big impediments to both institutional and retail adoption -- has been a lack of standardized disclosures and the inability to get sort of plain language information to less sophisticated people. You know, not everyone understands the nuances of various consensus protocols across different blockchains. And I think that that information is good to have for all sorts of sophisticated participants and practitioners.

But if you want investors to come into this space, you need to get up to their level, and it needs to be something that's consistent so that you can compare different things and make educated choices. Nicholas Losurdo: Christine, jump in. Christine Parlour: Oh, just a small sort of aside. It's not clear to me that a blockchain is particularly useful for regulatory information. Blockchain will tell me which wallets are holding what. That's fine. I don't know who's behind the wallet.

And it's also sort of, you know, when transactions happen, basically things get written onto the blockchain by strategic actors, and they can choose when that information hits. So basically, they can do essentially a private transaction. So it's perhaps not the best way of monitoring what people are doing. Tyler Gellasch: So she just tipped off the thing I was going to go to, which is when you're talking about, again, what an institutional investor or what an investor wants to look at,

they want to know what the market will look like. And they want to look at what -- they've already made the decision, perhaps based on whatever they know about the digital asset. So I'm going to set aside what the investor thinks, whether or not they want to make a decision to invest in the asset, and focus on what are the things that once they've decided to make the investment, what are the things that are giving them pause or keeping them out of the markets altogether? A lot of it is that trust, right?

And so if one is the trust in the trading of the markets, are they looking at real prices or real data? And if they're only looking at blockchains, they know there might be a lot more to the world than what they can see. They're worried about whether or not their broker may be ripping them off. They're worried about whether or not the asset that is custodied is real and safe and secure and bankruptcy remote. They wonder about whether or not their broker is actually surveying all of the things.

And maybe their broker is just sloppy, right? Like, these are all things we can see in traditional trading markets that we can't see here. And so if you try to scale that up to millions or billions of dollars of investment for a single or maybe a handful of institutional investors, those things go from things that maybe I, in my retail crypto account, might ignore -- but they're not going to, and they can't. Nicholas Losurdo: Chelsea, jump in. Chelsea Pizzola: Yeah, I mean, sort of just piggybacking off

of both those comments and kind of thinking about how timing mismatches work between transactions and then it showing up on the blockchain. I think that can sort of actually lead to Austin's point about needing to have commodities being able to be traded alongside with securities, you know, pairs together. Because I think, you know, otherwise you're going to sort of face a situation where a lot of times that we at Cumberland face today, where you've got sort of one side of the transaction

happening in crypto and the other in fiat. And you've just got these timing mismatches where the crypto leg can be settled essentially right away, but then the fiat leg might take -- you know, it might take a day, it might take multiple days if it's over a weekend. And so, you know, tied to your point about counterparty credit risk, like that, you know, if you're going days with one side having settled the trade and the other one's waiting to settle -- like, I think that creates a lot of risk that,

you know, if you've got stablecoins in the mix and you're able to have a broker-dealer that can have, you know, stablecoins trading alongside, you know, whether it's tokenized securities or natively digital securities -- I think that that can help mitigate a lot of the, you know, counterparty credit risk that you have. But I think there are a number of barriers to that. And I think one is this concept of, you know, automatic 100 percent haircut that we saw, you know, in the vacated dealer rule

and otherwise for non-security crypto assets. And I think, you know, maybe that's justified for some crypto assets out there that are, you know, less liquid, more volatile. But I just think, you know, for Bitcoin, for Ether, for stablecoins, just to say automatically we have 100 percent haircut, you know, without kind of looking at the data of like, is that warranted? I think, you know, that's going to kill a business that -- where, you know, if you're trying to put, you know, commodities and securities

crypto assets together under one roof -- I just think it's going to make it prohibitively expensive to do that. You know, so I think we should at least have sort of a data-driven look at whether that makes sense and whether, you know, maybe we start with sort of the standard 20 percent haircut for readily marketable commodities. We say, which crypto assets do we think are readily marketable? I think, you know, sort of piggybacking off of what Jon said, you know, we've got crypto assets that are liquid enough to support, you know,

ETPs trading on the underlying or futures trading on the underlying. Like, maybe that's a good place to start. And like, do we think those are readily marketable? Do you think those could have a haircut less than 100 percent? Those are just my thoughts. Nicholas Losurdo: And we're at time. I think that's actually a really good segue to session two at 3:30. So we're going to take about a 30-minute break. I hope our Internet friends are still here with us. Thank you for everyone here who stuck with us.

And I thought that was a really great conversation. Looking forward to picking it back up. Thanks, everybody. [applause]

Nicholas Losurdo: So we're live. I was just standing here awkwardly, staring into nothingness. Hey, everybody in internet world. Good to have you back. Hopefully, we have almost as many people as we had earlier. I do get it that it's a Friday. Thank you for everyone who's here, who has stuck with us. Maybe you just don't want to go back out in the rain. Or the ice cream that we had was keeping you around. But I'm glad we're still all here. We're going to go through our second session today,

during which we're going to talk about ways in which the SEC could actually advance the ball and its mission with regulating crypto trading, with whatever that takes shape in. I'm encouraged by the conversation we had during the first session. I feel like it was lively, spirited. We covered a lot of ground. And it's the first step that the SEC can take in terms of listening to the industry related to crypto trading. Before we get actually to the panel discussion, I'd like to add another personal anecdote.

I feel like if I'm up here, I have to at least do something and say a little bit. And I'm actually going to give a nod to Commissioner Purr. She had a speech a couple months ago called "Sheep in the Steep." And I don't think it had a crypto thread woven through it. Or at least, if you did, it went over my head. I didn't pick it up. But it was really about these lofty expectations and these bighorn sheep that were able to scale up this really, really steep mountain against all odds.

And it made me think of a children's book that I've read to both of my kids called "Sheep in the Jeep." And it's about these wacky sheep who are driving this jeep. Anybody know it? Yeah? Okay. So "Sheep in the Jeep" tells the story of these wacky sheep, literally, who are in this rickety old jeep. And they're really trying to get it up this hill. It's really steep. And they're pushing and pulling. And they finally get it to the top of the hill. They're high-fiving. And they're excited.

And they're celebrating. But they lose focus. And the jeep ends up rolling down the hill. And it gets stuck in a puddle of mud. They're like, "Oh, shoot. What do we do now?" So they're struggling to get the jeep out of the mud. They're pushing. They're pulling. And it's not until some friends come over to help them that they're actually able to get the jeep out of the mud. They're high-fiving again. They're celebrating. It's basically like that scene out of "Zoolander"

with the orange mocha frappuccinos, you know the one? The sheep behind the wheel isn't paying attention. He's looking back, high-fiving his buddies. And they crash into a tree. And as the book says, "The jeep goes thud." So sadly, that reminds me of crypto. Lots of highs, lots of lows. And as we go through this conversation, which is going to be a multi-year conversation, by the way, I think it's important to not only celebrate the highs, but remember the lows, and always continue to look forward

so we don't go thud into a jeep. With that, let's get started. We're going to start down the opposite end of the table this time. So Jon, you're up first. And what I'd love to hear from everybody is, if given one wish, if you could wave a magic wand and get one wish regarding a change that the SEC could make, or some step the SEC could take with respect to regulating crypto, what would that be? Jon Herrick: It would be, as we go through these series of roundtables, to the degree there's a --

I've used this word a couple of times in the first session -- as much precision as possible about what it is the problem is that we want to solve, rather than, "Here's this interesting solution. What are some problems it could solve?" I think that helps lead to -- and these will be things we'll talk about later -- the durability of changes is really, really important. And I think durability of changes and how they impact, whether it involves securities and tokenization, or it's just about assets that are considered crypto,

that durability is what will stand the test of time. But obviously, to the degree we can make changes along the way incrementally, I think that's a positive. So precision would be my answer. Nicholas Losurdo: I didn't hear a change that you wanted to make happen. Jon Herrick: I have incremental ones, if you'd like to hear. Nicholas Losurdo: Yeah, give me one. Jon Herrick: Okay. I do think, and this is also something I said in the beginning, I think where entities that are currently regulated by the SEC --

so this could include broker-dealers, it could include custodians, it could include clearinghouses, it could include ATSs, it could include exchanges -- where there are use cases that make sense from a practitioner perspective, as well as from an agency and service provider perspective, to allow -- I think -- the appropriate types of crypto assets, which probably are more in the commodity token space, to be included in the BD construct, to make the create-redeem process more efficient from a capital perspective and from an issuer perspective

in terms of how they look at the AP-LP relationship. Oftentimes, it's the same firm, but they have to work -- they kind of have to go at it on the fly -- to figure out how to approach the LP space because it's an unregulated entity that they're having go out and get the Bitcoin and deliver it to the custodian. And then just from the custodian or clearing perspective, where products exist that are linked to the price, or there's a NAV on the price of that underlying asset, there can be tremendous collateral efficiencies

that come from it. So I think little things like that, while they don't seem like really big ideas, they can help unlock potential that -- I don't think any of us on the panel quite know what that potential could be -- but I do think those are areas that, I certainly hear from market participants, would be welcomed. Chelsea Pizzola: Yeah, and I think for me and for Cumberland as a market participant, I think just clarity on sort of the scope. And I think the first question that we talked about,

about what's within the SEC's jurisdiction, what's within the CFTC's -- I know folks on the panel have -- I agree with what everyone said about sort of the confusion and the sort of investor harm, market participant harm, inefficiencies that come with having to spend so much time trying to figure that out. And hopefully, eventually, we have legislation that sort of puts in place a clear dividing line. But in the meantime, I just think, right now, sort of the courts are -- or were -- coming to different conclusions,

and there's sort of just a lot of question out there. And I think if the SEC could have guidance or rulemaking while we wait for legislation that, for example, clarify circumstances in which secondary market transactions would or wouldn't be viewed as falling within their jurisdiction versus being commodities under the CFTC's jurisdiction, I think that would be really helpful. Even just specific scenarios, like I mentioned earlier -- for example, if there's no pooling of an investor's assets

with the issuer for network development -- would the SEC or what its staff say, maybe that's not an investment contract? I think just specific examples and sort of, rather than kind of just a long list of questions or -- I think that would be really helpful just while we wait for legislation. Nicholas Losurdo: Richard, you're up. Richard Johnson: So my wish is that we get to a place where there's a regulatory framework such that we can deploy blockchain throughout capital markets. I believe it's a better technology

for what we're trying to do. With blockchain, you have a complete record of securities ownership and transaction history, and it's designed for transfer of value. So much of the things that we do in equities, fixed income, and so forth today. And the way that we get there, or the way we start to get there is, let's use the blockchain as official record of ownership for securities. Let's use smart contracts for settlement, and let's use stablecoins or tokenized treasuries for the cash leg of security settlements as well.

There's three. Katherine Minarik: So it's like, there's a genie, right? If there's three wishes, we all get three wishes. Nicholas Losurdo: I'll give you three. If you're willing to share three, I'll give you three. Katherine Minarik: I feel like my fundamental wish has probably already come through, which is that I certainly hope we don't -- or by "we," not we -- the commission does not deliberately or accidentally undermine the benefits and the future potential of decentralized finance technology

by requiring it to act or look just like CeFi. So maybe the additional wish on top of that is for the SEC to be a champion for the importance of peer-to-peer transactions, self-custody technology, and the value of the privacy and the safety to everyday people that can come from that type of technology. Because I think that embracing that technology and where it can take us does a lot to check against the level of trust that, right now, investors -- everyday people -- are required or necessarily have to place in third parties,

in the traditional intermediaries in any financial market. Gregory Tusar: So, I'll try. I have a few sort of broad things. I mentioned this at the beginning, sort of the idea that we should really look at this next opportunity through first principles again and really re-examine which things do we really need and which things do we really not need, and make sure we're not bringing along with us into this new world of digital assets and blockchain and all the things that Richard correctly said

are possible encumbrances that we need to address that actually will hold it back or not make it as good as it potentially can be. The specific things I would say are really helping refine what started as a special purpose broker-dealer regime and making clearer the rules around custody within a broker-dealer framework that would allow us to bring an ATS into scope and begin to really experiment. And I think along with that will come exemptive relief around order protection rule and some of those things

that will be required in order to make that framework work. And also a recognition that -- and I think Austin made a really good point on the sort of global sense, and we've talked about it before -- that these are a recognition somehow in that framework that commodities and securities need to not just live side by side, but integrate in a way that, I think when we use the word "side by side," it actually doesn't do justice to, I think, what we're asking for, which is a completely holistic and integrated market structure

that allows them to trade, allows them to be transacted. And also, I think importantly -- which we haven't really talked a lot about -- is recognizing that there's a broad universe of potential token types, including those that have consumptive use, and they need to live side by side in wallets and other things so that people can use them day to day in their activities. And so, when we have the conversation about securities and commodities, it sort of leads us to believe that there are these very clear swim lanes.

But in actual fact, it's nowhere near going to be that clean and precise, I would say. Christine Parlour: The thing that I would wish for would be that the capital formation role of markets be part of the conversation. One thing that we want is we want a way for people to come up with incredibly clever new things that require tokens as a means of getting those things to work as business models, and be able to essentially sell them on exchanges in a way that makes consumers comfortable, and the markets are liquid, and basically the economy grows.

And so I think it's really, really important, when thinking about the market layer, just to recognize the reason why we have markets is so people who are innovating can actually get funding from people who want to put this in their portfolio and grow the economy with it. And so that would be my wish. Austin Reid: Great, yeah, and I agree with a lot of the things that have been set up here. One thing that I would add that the acting chairman touched on at the beginning too is also a lot of my points have been around, like,

U.S. competitiveness globally and the opportunity for us to build the leading market both in crypto and, I would say, digital asset securities too. I think one of the challenges that I see within that is this patchwork of regulation that we have across so many different regulators today. If you are a company that's operating similar to a FalconX or a Coinbase, and operating either on the institutional or retail side of the market, you can easily end up in a scenario where you have over 50 regulators, right?

Including all of the states, and CFTC, SEC. And if you want to be a global firm -- which I do not believe you can be in this asset class and operate at scale without also operating global businesses here -- you need to obviously be registered in those different regions. And so I think, to the extent the SEC can work in consolidating and some sort of federal preemption in these different areas, I think custody is an interesting area to look at. I also think to the extent there's an opportunity

to look at that for trading, that that would be a big unlock for firms here to be competitive, not just in the U.S. but also at a much more global scale. Dave Lauer: So if I was thinking of one small thing that could change, I would just say, merge the SEC and the CFTC. Just a little ask. And then dramatically increase funding and technology and teams of quants and such. So I assume those are easy things to do and can be done pretty quickly. But if I'm thinking of harder things, maybe something as simple as saying that tokenized shares

that are fungible with registered security shouldn't require separate registrations or disclosures if they're trading on a registered exchange. So I know we're talking about sort of ATS versus exchange, and I'm going to come down on the side of, I'd rather see things on the National Securities Exchange. I'm going to say, I probably -- I think there's good arguments either way on the issue -- but I'm going to come down on the National Securities Exchange, and I'm going to equate it to something like,

we have options contracts that don't require this kind of crazy separate registration process or anything. There's a short form registration process for, like, an ADR. These things all seem very equivalent to me to tokenized securities. And I think if we look at where the U.S. could really lead right now and where the SEC has a central role, it would be in this space of tokenized securities, where we have the largest securities market in the world and the opportunity to allow our existing regulatory framework

to expand and encompass a new class of securities. Maybe not -- maybe they're not securities -- they're tokenized securities, but there's enough crossover and fungibility that there's a lot I find appealing to maintaining this model and then to sort of build on what has just been said by a couple of the other panelists, that you need to extend that down the line so that brokers can, again, custody and manage both traditional securities and crypto asset securities and tokenized securities.

And I think that fits really nicely into our current regulatory framework and doesn't require a lot to enable. And I think that there are exchanges or ATSs that could really thrive with that approach. And then we can kind of grow from there and try and figure out the more thorny issues of how do we really get this deep cooperation between regulatory agencies? How do we get this deep cooperation between global regulatory authorities? Which I really struggle to see a way that the world can approach this industry

without way more cooperation and intertwining of resources than we've ever proven able to before. Nicholas Losurdo: Thanks, everyone. Greg, did you want to go? Gregory Tusar: Can I just want to add one thing, which is, when I'm advocating for a broker-dealer and an ATS model, that's not to the exclusion of an exchange model. And I think what the ATS, what ATS showed us was that it wasn't just competition among participants, but competition among business models that actually got us to the best possible place.

And so I didn't want to leave the impression it's to the exclusion of, but rather in addition to. Nicholas Losurdo: Jon, yeah, go ahead. Jon Herrick: One thing to Greg's point that I think is critical -- absent the label you want to put on a venue where people transact, right? ATS has evolved, again, for different reasons at a particular point in time, and there are structures that exist now that is - allows for more flexibility than what national securities exchanges are required to do.

I think the critical piece with this is, again, understanding the use cases. I think there's certainly a number of interesting areas where tokenization of some security obviously makes a lot of sense in terms of more efficient collateral management from a clearing and settlement purpose. On the trading side, I think it's interesting. The use cases I've heard that resonate the most are kind of on the margins, right? That doesn't mean it's not something to explore, but the key is to not bifurcate

the current share class structure and think of something like a corporate action, like a dividend. A dividend fundamentally flows through from the issuer, is given to the DTCC, goes through a transfer agent to make sure that all shareholders of record get that payment, right? And I think we have to be mindful of unnecessary fragmentation of -- there's a similar share class that was somehow separated by someone trying to carve it out and leave it in a wallet somewhere like that. That's not a good thing, right?

That's not something that's in the public interest. For what reason are we allowing that to happen? And so I think where things aren't broken today, we have to be careful not to let the vertical integration part of the legacy crypto world -- which I think is probably a function of, as I said before, the lack of regulatory structure that was willing to welcome them in -- to not create excessive issues such as the dividend example. So I think that's important. Nicholas Losurdo: Christine, I know you're short on time.

Is there anything you wanted to jump in with, generally? Any area? Christine Parlour: Sort of awkward, but no. Nicholas Losurdo: Sorry, okay, okay. I just wanted to give you a chance, yeah. That's okay. Let's talk about trading of assets that might start out as an investment contract and therefore a security. And let's just say for, you know, it's Friday, we want to think optimistically. Let's just say there's some guidance from the -- Christine, thank you -- there's some guidance from the Commission

or the staff that, you know, what is maybe an investment contract to begin and later just simply an orange doesn't need to go through an SEC-registered broker or exchange. Thoughts? Round robin, anybody can jump in. Richard, do you want that? Richard Johnson: I think that what I heard there was that it starts in an investment contract and changes. I mean, if it's an investment contract, it should probably still be offered in the same way, whether it's Reg D, Reg A, or registration. Nicholas Losurdo: At the outset, you're suggesting.

Richard Johnson: At the outset? Nicholas Losurdo: Yes. Richard Johnson: I think what there's been some discussion on over the years is, you know, how does it evolve? What does that process look like? There's a term -- sufficiently decentralized -- I don't know if you've heard of it, I don't know if that matters anymore, if that's a thing that people are looking at. But at the same time, we've had, you know, token off tokens that are sold, you know, in a securities contract with the knowledge that,

you know, the tokens aren't the securities. So I don't really have an answer for you. I just had -- they were just my comments on that. Nicholas Losurdo: By a show of hands, do we want and need that guidance? I mean, raise it proud if you're going to raise it. Yes? Okay. Okay. Yeah. Male Speaker: Raising that we would want the guidance that this is the case, correct? Male Speaker: Yes? Okay, just making sure. Nicholas Losurdo: Yes. Male Speaker: We don't want no guidance, yeah. Nicholas Losurdo: I mean, for each of your business models,

is it important to get that? I think the answer is probably yes for most. Austin Reid: Yeah, I think, look, to talk from a, more of a markets perspective, in terms of what we've seen within the space of the previous years -- or the previous, like, year and a half, really, at this point. I think the great thing about blockchain and tokens is that they're open, freely transferable. And within that, they can enable a lot of both financial and non-financial use cases that otherwise would have been impossible.

I think at the same time, I think some of the challenges can be identifying -- and especially for investors, at the initial stage -- the actual quality of the investment that they're making, if they're making that for investment purposes. And if I look at that from an institutional market perspective, right? We don't service retail directly. FalconX deals with a number of institutions -- from asset managers, venture capital firms, hedge funds, et cetera. And many are playing at the earlier stage side of that market,

where they may be looking to, like, seed net new layer ones, as an example, or distributed file sharing applications, or whatever that is. I do think that when I talk to customers, they would value some sort of framework for those initial issuances. So there's at least standards and disclosures of what that is. Then I think the question is, at what point, and we've been discussing this for years, those applications then become sufficiently decentralized. I think to the extent that happens,

it will be very powerful for the space, not just from an investment perspective, but I'd say from a broader adoption perspective, too. I think the interesting thing that I've seen over the previous couple of years, or really, like, the last year or so, as we've started to move more towards regulatory clarity here, is I think you have a lot of people, both entrepreneurs and established companies, who have been in the sidelines from this space, and have actually not necessarily had --

we have great talent within this space -- but I don't think that we're operating 100 percent in terms of the net new talent that we're attracting, or the companies that we're investing with in this market. I think that the benefit of regulatory clarity there, is I would expect you would see large U.S. technology companies move into this space. I would expect you would see more Web 2.0 entrepreneurs move into this space, because they'll have more certainty on terms of what they're able to do,

and the corresponding risks that they're taking. I think that there's a lot of benefits to that being the case that would create a much better and more robust market itself. Gregory Tusar: Some of these, Nick, strike me as maybe the things that we're hoping for from congressional action in the bill that's making its way through, in addition to the taxonomy, from a capital-raising perspective, when something transitions from one thing to another, and those sorts of things. So my sense is we'll have that sooner than later.

But since we're asking for things, that'll be a fourth thing, if we can ask for that. But that, I think, is where that will come from, as opposed to guidance at the agency level. Nicholas Losurdo: Okay, Chelsea? Chelsea Pizzola: I was just going to say, I think, to Austin's point of wanting sort of disclosures at the outset, where maybe a network hasn't become sufficiently decentralized, you're sort of in the initial sale, where you think, this is an investment contract. Theoretically, it should be registered,

but we've all seen sort of the issues with typical Securities Act registration for a lot of these tokens. I think Commissioner Peirce's proposed Rule 195, I think that set of disclosures, I think, at least we think, is sort of a very reasonable place to start, of making sure that information is out there, and that people like Austin's customers, other market participants, can have the information that they need to be informed. And then, but I think it also sort of gives a good set of criteria

for when a network has become sufficiently decentralized. There are people other than sort of the initial project team who are working on the network, developing it, able to maybe operate applications on it, and able to participate in governance, so that it's -- there are sort of metrics that I think are helpful, and sort of having this exit report idea of like, okay, now we know that it's either become sufficiently decentralized, and there's sort of this marker of -- so okay, then it doesn't need to be registered,

or it does need to be registered, and so here's the process that you go through. So I think that kind of -- until, like Greg said, until there is legislation -- if something like that were done in the interim, I mean, maybe legislation happens as quickly as we all hope, and we don't need it, but sort of, we'll see, but. Nicholas Losurdo: Great, yeah. Dave Lauer: Yeah, I'll admit that this is like a question I really struggle with, because it's almost like saying, when -- in the traditional finance world,

you have the primary offering, and then you have secondary trading, and it's always been sort of this clear connection that what you're trading is a security, because for all the various reasons that it satisfies these legal tests. And then we get into this space, and it's like, yes, okay, so there was a security offering -- let's say there was -- that was the primary offering, and now you're into secondary trading, and there can come a point where it's not a security. And I think without that kind of clarity,

I don't understand how you can have something trade in the secondary market. It's almost like, this is a great example of where our current structures from the traditional finance world really start to break down, because they didn't - I don't think, conceive of this particular scenario. And yet, this is so common in crypto. And I think it's really hard for those of us who are so used to the world of equities of secondary trading to say, no, something fundamentally changes about it

as it moves from primary to secondary. That's still -- I really struggle with making sense of that. And so I do think if there was this clear set of criteria to determine that something exited, yeah, that would make perfect sense. But without that, to me, it still really feels like a security that's in the secondary market that you're expecting to go up in value because of the success of this venture, even if it's maybe decentralized, so it's not a common enterprise. And this is why -- I don't know --

I really struggle with this question. And I don't know if that's helpful at all, but maybe once we get to that point, it would make a lot more sense. Katherine Minarik: I think that the reason you struggle with it is because the use of investment contract as the security catch-all to try to capture crypto trading is not fit for purpose. And it may be fit for purpose for a primary offering, but it's not fit for purpose for a secondary offering. Whereas stock and equities, those are defined categories of security,

so you do not have to fit it into the concept of an investment contract. If you did, we would probably have that same problem, right? So I do think it's important to get more guidance, whether that is from the SEC or through legislation on primary offerings and secondary transactions of assets, of digital assets. I think that is still something where more crispness about how we're going to categorize things, however we end up choosing to do that, would prevent us from getting in this quagmire of,

well, let's pull this language and stretch it in this direction a little beyond where it could possibly be stretched. Richard Johnson: It's kind of -- this is a good question, Nick -- because it's kind of the one that's got us all sitting here and we're all kind of thinking. And this is, again, just off the top of my head here -- like part of the narrative over the last few years was like, how do we avoid being a security? We don't want to be in a security. But maybe it should be more about --

it doesn't matter, as long as there's a registration process, maybe it doesn't matter as much. Like, to take Reg A for an example, is there a way we could use that? And it's an easy way, there's disclosures, we understand it, it's available to retail, it's their secondary trading, there's some SEC qualification, and it doesn't really matter too much if it's a security down the line. And maybe that's just an idea I'm putting out. Nicholas Losurdo: Jon, were you going to say something too?

Jon Herrick: I was actually going to agree with Dave that I was -- it's hard for me to wrap my head around it. I think what Katherine and Richard said helped. I think it's interesting to me to think about, are we talking about private enterprises that want to use aspects of this technology? Like Christine talked about capital formation, right? And so one area where smart contracts and technology in this area could be interesting is allowing an issuer and an individual investor, or even a pool of investors,

to access private companies earlier, right? And that's important because it's just -- it's one area where the technology's evolved in a lot of ways. There's a much higher degree of fidelity of control there, to give the issuer a bit more control in things like a vesting period, where they might need to feel comfortable giving more robust financial disclosures, transparency around ownership and where it's transferred to. And those types of things could lead in a very healthy way

to more retail participation in IPOs. Like, that's a really good thing. I don't get how that could not become a security though. But I think that's something that hopefully we'll get clarity from out of the first panel, the first round table. Austin Reid: Yeah, I think one thing that I'd chime in on, because I think that this is like a fundamental challenge in a space that's so heavily driven by decentralized applications, is like it's just branded really poorly overall, right?

Like even if you think about the term cryptocurrency, everyone talks about like cryptocurrency asset class, it's like how many of the top 100 tokens are trying to be money or currency? Like Bitcoin and a few stablecoins, right? And I think the reason these conversations -- I agree with you -- they become complex and I think they break the traditional framework and thinking is like, in many ways, you're actually just looking at running the next version of the internet over some application, right?

And so the way I would think through it, and the way I've, like, got my head around it is like, okay, if I think about like a decentralized file storage network, as an example, how does that run on a securities exchange, right? Like it just logically does not make sense, right? And I think that you have similar, like with an L1, like an L1 is just like a new version of computing, right? And so if that's going to sit on a securities exchange, like I think that the fundamental use cases actually then don't work.

And so I think that's the challenge. And on the other side, you definitely have financial applications that should be securities, right? Tokenized money, market funds, treasuries -- I don't think anyone has an argument that those are not securities in the ways that they're acted. But I think the question is basically, okay, what are these different applications endeavoring to be, and whether those are financial or realistically just internet and technology applications. And then how do you actually ensure

the highest probability of success for those? Nicholas Losurdo: Go ahead, Dave, yeah. Dave Lauer: So just a small ask again, like we just need this comprehensive taxonomy of crypto assets with clear regulatory assignments, right? And then everything would be solved. But I think like those are great points. And also like what you're saying, Jon, and what Christine said earlier, if this helps us provide more opportunities at earlier stages to individual investors, that can be an incredibly good thing.

What we have seen in the regulated space is that the opportunities for individual investors have declined dramatically as fewer companies go public and the ones that do are much bigger. And people don't get to participate in that wealth creation process like they used to. And that's really a problem. And this is an area where I really like the idea of using Reg A or Irvin. We funded ourselves with Reg CF and it was a very reasonable process, and we have 2,200 retail investors in our company,

and we're registered with the SEC. And it all worked out really well. And I get what you're saying, Austin, about - yeah, the distributed file store on an exchange makes no sense. But there are level one protocols where I think you could easily imagine that the token or the representation of that can trade on a registered securities exchange, but not the application of it, right? The -- you can be running a staking node, for example, or a proof of work node, whatever it is, a miner, and generating these tokens, but then have a place

where you have all of the standard protections that you would expect from the registered world, and you can take it there. And now suddenly you have a much larger market and a much broader participant base to -- if you want to sell your tokens. And I don't know that that is where we're going to get to because I don't know that like L1 tokens are securities in most situations. But I do think there's sort of a delineation there between trading something versus the core operations of a network. That's it.

Nicholas Losurdo: Go ahead, Greg, yeah. Gregory Tusar: Just one slightly bigger picture point I wanted to make is that among all the things we've talked about, the real promise of this happens as we move closer and closer to DeFi and closer and closer to decentralization. And the point about the benefits to the consumer extend to things like participating in governance, participating in the ability to be part of the proxy process, to be part of a lot of things. And there's going to be a period that's going to take a long time

before we have things that look like centralized exchanges that are happening in DeFi and those kinds of things. But that's the direction of travel, and that's the thing I think that will make the surveillance easier. It will make a whole lot of things a lot better. We're going to live in a world for a good period of time where what's happening in the broker-dealer world and in the ATS and exchange world and surveillance will be complicated. But I think we also do have to start with the end

in mind here as well, which is what we want to get to should be much easier. And it should be on chain, and it should be easier for retail and others to be in control of their key material and to be able to participate in capital formation, whether it's through capital raises or in the voting process and a handful of other things. I think starting with that vision in mind, I think is critically important. Katherine Minarik: I guess I also just wanted to add to the conversation since Richard,

I think you raised a fair point. Well, are we at a point where we could more comfortably categorize more assets as securities? But I do think the answer is no. The reason we categorize certain assets -- well, a reason that we categorize certain assets as securities is that there's often a significant information asymmetry, and they are meant to be an investment that comes with promises from a third party that you have to rely on. That is a narrow category of things, and not all investments at all --

if we're talking about investors -- not all investments at all meet that. And certainly this maybe goes to what Austin was explaining about different types of tokens or assets or blockchains. Not all of that in any way could be mapped onto what a traditional consideration of a security might be, and I don't think it should because then we may prevent the invention and use of digital things that are very important to our future, that maybe someone will use as an investment but have very important other uses.

And we do not want to stifle what those future uses are. Nicholas Losurdo: Can we sit on capital formation for a minute? The driving question I have is why haven't we seen more tokenized offerings like real regular Reg D offerings, Reg A Plus? Is there an impediment or other blockage that is an SEC issue that they can maybe seek to fix? Is it -- what's the answer there? Richard Johnson: I think we might go back to my wishlist for that one. I think there are some limitations that we've had to work around. The blockchain is not allowed

to be the official record of ownership, generally speaking, so there's been a transfer agent has been required to maintain off-chain books and records. So then you're not really able to take advantage of a lot of the benefits of blockchain if you've got this kind of -- if you look at nearly every tokenized money market fund filing, they use the words, "Oh, and by the way, there's an ancillary blockchain record." They have to call it an ancillary blockchain record. And then when it comes to --

we want to bring about a lot of the benefits of instant settlement and transparency and so forth. And then there's a problem when you get to use smart contracts. So what a smart contract can do is -- and it happens all the time in DeFi -- is you put one asset in, that's the buyer asset, and another asset that's being sold. And if there's a match, if the price is right, then they automatically settle going to the counterparties there. In traditional securities world, there's a big question of possession and control.

Like who is in control of that asset? And it can't be -- generally speaking, it has scared regulators that the idea that a computer code could be in control of the asset, especially when you have, frankly, a lot of very negative headlines around hacking and so forth and risks around that. So I think if we could move forward on those two areas, then I think that we'd be able to really start realizing a lot of the benefits that we want -- companies like my company want to bring to traditional capital markets.

But we really have to lean into the technology and use some of this kind of innate functions and features that they have to do that. Dave Lauer: I'd like to add to that because I think Richard hit on a really key point, because one of the key benefits to blockchain technology is this idea of the efficiencies and transparency you can have into the clearing and settlement process. And I know that's another roundtable, but I'm just going to dip into it for a second because it's something that I hear a lot of --

that we have a very opaque system today in equities. And there is this vision of a completely transparent future where everything settles on chain and all records are visible and traceable. And if not instantaneous, near-instantaneous. And I think that's a very laudable goal. I think that is a place that we can get to, that you can introduce true efficiencies into the traditional finance world, let alone enable a whole new space in the tokenized securities world. So it seems like a really smart change to make.

Austin Reid: Yeah, I think a couple thoughts on the initial issuance side. One is -- I think we touched on it in terms of the process from going to initial issuance, like security to commodity at some point. I think to the extent there is clarity there, I think more launches will happen in the US. I think that happens just not here. And so I think that's one component. But I think that that's actually more on the decentralized network side of the space. My second point, which is my personal opinion,

is that I think for like private company capital raising and formation, I think there can often be a negative selection bias in terms of the assets that basically get listed. Because if I think about us -- we're a venture-backed company, backed by like Accel, Lightspeed, Fidelity, GIC, and others. Like that's the capital that's most attractive for us to take for a number of different reasons versus basically going public early without the benefits of being a public company, right? And having this liquid security that's ultimately trading.

So I think that's a challenge. I don't know the solution to that. I don't necessarily know if that actually is a problem that needs to be solved. The last thing that I would mention is -- I think, you know, I think on the like global side and like looking at tokenization, I mean, my perspective is that the largest demonstration of tokenization that we've seen to date has been the tokenization of fiat currency on chain with stablecoins, right? And I think it's often not talked about

in the context of tokenization for whatever reason. But I think if you look at the use case that's actually being tapped in there -- and we serve as customers in a lot of B2B2C like wealth or investment platforms, payment companies in different emerging markets -- the use case is people in those markets holding U S. dollars, right? And the benefit that they're getting through tokenization is basically exporting a U.S. financial product -- in that demonstration, a dollar -- for someone to basically hold.

And I think that that's actually the most interesting use case that I've seen of tokenization, right? Is like, yes, there will be efficiencies in trading. I think like tokenizing U.S. equity markets to me personally is less interesting. But I think if we're looking at like tokenized money, market funds, treasuries, different instruments like that, that can get broad, wide-scale adoption outside of the United States and actually give the U.S. capital markets a completely different lens

to what they're able to tap into. I think that is actually super interesting. Jon Herrick: I think one area where that I think scales is when you think of it as a use case for more efficient collateral management and that there's a benefit there. We may talk about this later, but I wanted to make this point at the end of the first session. I think another thing that people kind of, I think, connect naturally to the idea of a stable coin is its usage for on-chain settlement, or otherwise known as atomic settlement.

And I think Chelsea had brought up at the end, sometimes there are time differences between when one counterparty might settle versus another. And one thing that I think is often overlooked with very mature markets, like, say, U.S. equities and others that have a fixed settlement cycle, is I think it's really important not to discount all that goes into the centralized clearing process. You have netting. You have, obviously, collateral efficiency. You have a very complex world of liquidity provision.

That risk is non-linear. So if I hold the position in one thing, I'm not offsetting it when I sell it, right? And a lot of that is driven by balance sheet, lending, things that go into that clearing process, kind of can create a different outcome than a pre-funded trade. So the example I like to use is, if you have any stock, you might have the pre-funded price, and then you might have the T-plus-one price. And you might logically think the T-plus-one price is going to be the time value of that money.

But what if it isn't, right? And it may not be, because there are other things that make that T-plus-one price a little bit more efficient. And so I think, as we think of stable coins and atomic settlement, it's important to kind of understand almost settlement as maybe a spectrum, rather than a either-or, right? So I think that's a key point. Nicholas Losurdo: Greg, I'm going to put you on the spot. We've talked a little bit about Reg ATS and that maybe being a model for crypto activity, crypto trading.

Under Reg ATS, there are some, I'll call them carve-outs or exemptions for certain activity that is under a certain threshold, and you don't need to do some of the stuff in Rule 301. Do you think that could serve as a good model for even new entrants, if we're trying to promote competition? Say a de minimis threshold under which, like, the capacity and integrity part of Rule 301, where they might not actually need to either apply for certain status or comply with certain SEC requirements?

Gregory Tusar: I do. I think that, you know, I think if I look at the market structure today, that, you know, the best way to come into something that looks like the overall national market system today is the ATS framework. I think that if I think back to the origin of ATS and the benefits that that had, it encouraged people to, you know, to participate in that. It was a framework that more easily allowed for the creation, and then over time, it evolved to be more stringent, and, you know, you learned as it went,

and we now have sort of a next and the next iteration of ATS. But I think it was the right thing at the right time, and it feels to me like that is exactly the sort of thing, or something like it, that's required for crypto and digital assets now. Nicholas Losurdo: Go ahead, Jon. Jon Herrick: One thing just to follow up on that to, you know, take a slightly different vantage point on it. You know, I think the original Reg ATS kind of brought forth the ECN, you know, competition to the existing national securities exchanges.

And I think they operated very much like exchanges, right? Anonymous limit order books with some disclosure. They had quotes. There was no market structure framework to come, you know, make them a part of the national NBBO. Many of them would quote NASDAQ-listed names pre-NMS through NASDAQ systems, but post-NMS, all of those ATSs became exchanges. And then what happened, right? There was this structure laying around, and a bunch of smart people said, oh, we can use this internally to pair off internal interest, right?

To save on execution costs. The cleverness of the broader marketplace -- and I mean that in a good way, right? I think we have brilliant people that work in all of these industries -- that, when you let them think about either working with the rules of the road as they exist or help create new rules of the road, interesting things happen. But the follow-on to ATS, ATSN, and other parts of it really were, I think, a response to how this thing was used in a different way once you shut the quote off.

So I think it's an interesting example of the law of unintended consequences. And, you know, who knows what the right structure is? I think it depends on what it is, again, precisely we want to accomplish and we want to do. Gregory Tusar: I would argue we're closer to the start of when sort of ATS was invented, and this is sort of a nascent and formative asset class that needs a slightly more plastic environment to grow up in, if you will. And then, at some point, it may turn out exactly that way.

And, you know, but I think at the moment, the more flexible it is so that we can learn and adapt, I think, the better. I think the moment we put the rigid, you know, Form One sort of structure on a very nascent asset class, I think we will not see the kind of evolution and competition, all the benefits that we had out of that, that I think we can get. Richard Johnson: I think you both make good points. It makes me think of some of the existing market structure struggles that we continue to have.

I mean, Dave, you mentioned earlier that you wanted to bring crypto trading on exchanges. We can't even bring equity trading on exchanges. But, you know, execution quality is fantastic. You've got, I think it is, I don't know, 50 or 60 NMS ATSs, you know, almost as many exchanges at this point, and it's a very fragmented market structure. And then, of course, you've got the market makers who are doing, you know, without ATSs, they're just internalizing orders. But it kind of works.

I don't really have an answer here. I'm just saying, it's like, there's not a perfect world in either scenario, but certainly the ATS model has worked. And when you look at the end result, you know, it's generally been good for investors. Nicholas Losurdo: Yeah, and I raise it because the goal of this second session is to ideally give the commission and the staff some ideas that they can run with. And I know almost everyone -- or everyone -- has submitted a comment letter, you know, ideas or responses to the request for information.

When I think about ATS, two things come to mind. One is we have this known model. For better or worse, though, that known model requires that as a prereq to becoming an ATS, you must become a registered broker-dealer and FINRA member. Anybody have any thoughts about that? Is that something we would be comfortable perpetuating? Or is that something that we think would actually be perhaps detrimental to the path forward? Dave Lauer: I do want to just, to Richard's point, I think it's such a huge problem

that more equity trading is not on exchange. And, you know, from an execution quality, but really from a market quality perspective, I think it has led to wider spreads. And, in fact, the levels of internalization we have in the equities market leads to 25 percent wider spreads than we otherwise would have. And I know we're not here to talk equities, but it's hugely problematic. Which is why maybe, you know, I lean more towards getting trading on exchange in crypto where possible, because I think that the transparency

and the price discovery process works fundamentally better on exchange, or almost at all. But maybe that's not a great analogy to crypto. And so maybe that's sort of, like, my biases coming out. But, you know, I do think, when you think about using ATS, yeah, I think one of the things I said earlier was we could expand the definition of special purpose broker-dealer. And, you know, that is a nice pathway towards being able to trade and custody both crypto assets and traditional securities.

And that seems like a good pathway towards potentially being able to leverage ATS, as Greg said, alongside, you know, national securities exchanges, which should have a role in this. And, you know, I do think there is a lot of interest out there that I see. And I advise one company that, you know, they want to be a national securities exchange and trading tokenized securities. And they have very novel and innovative thoughts and model on that, on how they can, you know, develop that sort of book --

the digital book -- alongside the traditional book and bridge things back and forth. And to me, that kind of innovation in the exchange space is very exciting -- potentially maybe more so than in the ATS space. But, you know, I definitely see the argument for having both of these as options, for sure. Nicholas Losurdo: Seems like you're ignoring my question. Dave Lauer: I said special purpose broker-dealer. Nicholas Losurdo: Do we need FINRA in the mix for whatever this crypto trading activity

is that may or may not be through an ATS-like regime? Should that be a prerequisite? Male Speaker: It's a pretty fair question, yes. Richard Johnson: Well, if we're saying that we want broker-dealers to trade, you know, to facilitate trading of crypto for investors, then FINRA is our SRO. That's how it is. I mean, I don't know if you want to go down the road of shaking all that up as well. Nicholas Losurdo: I mean, I asked the question. Yeah. I think I do. Richard Johnson: I tell you what I don't think we need.

We don't need a separate, a new, separate, different SRO. That'd be a terrible idea. Nicholas Losurdo: I mean, we have the SEC, right? Richard Johnson: Yes, the SEC, CFTC, and FINRA then. Is that what you're saying? Nicholas Losurdo: That's right. Dave Lauer: So maybe we merge FINRA and the SEC and the CFTC. There we go. We got it, right? We're done here? Gregory Tusar: It strikes me that there probably isn't a way in which you could say we're, given the structure that we've proposed,

where the brokerage function of being custodially in charge of clients' assets is merged together with the matching of buying and selling, that there isn't a way to do that without that first part being a broker-dealer, because you are holding customers' assets, and that feels like an important first principle. I don't know that there's a way, unless you're totally just saying, in a DeFi-like capacity, you're a platform and you're technology, and it's self-custodial.

There, I think it's completely different. It's not a broker-dealer, and I think it's peer-to-peer and so forth. But if we're custodially in charge of holding clients' assets, I think that's a broker-dealer. Nicholas Losurdo: Katherine, any thoughts? Katherine Minarik: I agree, you're not a broker-dealer if you're not custodying assets. Was that the question? Nicholas Losurdo: Something like that, yeah. Nicholas Losurdo: Any other thoughts? Katherine Minarik: I guess, to take it a step back,

I was pondering the debate about an exchange or an ATS, but I'm reminded of one of the starting points, which is that we're talking about crypto securities trading and that that is still a very narrow set of the broader category of crypto trading, and all of the types of digital assets that there are. And we've identified throughout our discussion today the need for, for lack of a better term, side-by-side trading. I'm not sure what the right terminology that we've settled on is,

but does the rigidity of an exchange model fit more in a universe in which the vast majority of assets or transactions would be viewed as securities, which I don't think is the case for crypto trading generally? So the last half of that hypothesizing is more my view, but the first is truly an open question. If we're thinking about the right structure for crypto securities trading, how does it solve for the other questions that we've raised of side-by-side across asset classes, trading a global regulatory regime

where there isn't necessarily the same type of securities or commodities distinctions, and 24-7 trading, and trading that will happen -- crypto trading that will happen elsewhere and other parts of the world regardless of how we structure it. So how does that fit into our choices of structure? Nicholas Losurdo: Yeah, well, as you mentioned, 24-7 trading, and Austin, you've mentioned the global nature of trading in this space. And Jon, you work at a global SRO operator, exchange operator.

How should the SEC be looking at its role, recognizing that trading is essentially 24-7 in this space, that there are regulators, even in our own country, who have a head start on the SEC -- one right across town? There are many states that are already ahead of the SEC in terms of their thinking and what they've been doing, and certainly global regulators. So how does that affect your view on these issues and how it should influence the SEC's at the same time? Jon Herrick: I mean, I think it's unquestionable

that the demand is there. I think there's -- to me, this is just an interesting question, too. You take the world of NMS securities, right? There's many of them. Now, if you look at even the existing 16 hours, five days a week, that the equities market trades, you have some ATSs that kind of fill in that eight-hour gap. The breadth of names, obviously, is a lot less than you have during the regular session. But even then, they're not -- to use your oranges analogy before -- I think we're sort of comparing apples and oranges

in that the market that likely comes to mind for most people when they think about 24-7 trading of crypto is Bitcoin, Ethereum, the most liquid and largest of the crypto assets. And a lot of that is just driven by the ability to settle it, again, atomically on-chain. And I think that's an open question, right? Like where that fits in, how that fits in, what's the use case for that, and what's the problem people want to solve with it, I think, is a good one. Perhaps that's one, right?

Trading on weekends, if that's ever a thing. I think outside of crypto, though, right -- and the most liquid crypto assets -- there aren't a lot of markets that trade on weekends and holidays, and I think they're different, right? As Austin pointed out before, right? Bitcoin is like -- it's a global thing, right? You have a U.S. company, how do you handle -- I mean, there's lots of nuance, and the assets themselves are different. So I think it's there. I mean, my view is it's likely to be in the 23-5 range,

looking more like futures. You know, at some point next year, with all the plumbing in place to help drive it, which will be a good thing. But I think it'll be interesting to see how broad the participation is, because I think one of the things that makes equities what it is, is we welcome in the broadest possible base of participants, right? You have retail trading with retail on exchange. You have market makers trading with market makers, principally agency firms and institutions trading with each other.

So I think the more vibrant that is, the better the market is. Gregory Tusar: So next month, we have a CFTC-regulated DCM and FCM that we are making 24-7, I think, for the first time in the futures world. And there were no shortage of issues navigating, you know, having other FCMs and other participants come along. But the support has been enormous from, you know, from the entire community. And in the case of -- to your point -- Bitcoin and others, it is not a great experience on a Saturday or Sunday to be long a future.

And so I know that's different than securities, but I think that we sort of navigated bringing sort of TradFi and all the, all of the participants and systems and clearing and so forth along with. And it's -- we're quite excited about it. Austin Reid: Yeah, to just chime in, a couple of different thoughts. I think one is in relation to just like what I think we're trying to solve within this space. I've heard Raghu, our CEO, like use the analogy of like, what if, you know, why are we okay with like Google

and Amazon, like, or if Google or Amazon didn't work on nights or weekends, like would you ever use those applications, right? And I think the interesting thing is like, if I think even recently, a few days ago, I was literally just trying to move money from a bank to a bank. And I would do doing it after work. And I was like, okay, well, like, this is not a great customer experience. And I think a lot of that is, you know, kind of what we're trying to solve with crypto and tokenization here.

And so I think from my perspective, for tokenization to be successful, you need to be able to operate 24/7, 365. I don't really think that there's a path where tokenization will work and that won't be the case. And I'm sure there's a lot of components. I mean, we've talked about from a SEC licensing structure today, broker dealers, ATSs, exchanges, et cetera. And I think there's a lot of components underneath those, whether those are circuit breakers or otherwise, that just the like market timing hours

are going to be influenced, right? And that we need to dive deeper and really understand. And lastly, what I would say is, I mean, I think we've seen the benefits of this in our own business, just in our derivatives business itself too. We operate as a CFTC-regulated swaps dealer entity. We have a large options business, both in the U.S. and globally. And you see a significant amount of activity that happens over weekends. I think especially this year, right? If you think about all the different big news events

and macroeconomic shocks that have happened over that time period. And I think the activity that you also see is people hedging their BTC ETF exposure through derivatives because they cannot get on and sell that asset, right? And so I think that it will create more efficient and effective markets over time. And I think there's already demonstrations of that working at a federally regulated level today. Jon Herrick: The point Austin made made me think, there's a difference between an individual company share

and a broad-based index, something like an ETF like SPY or even some of the levered ETFs that have evolved around these indices. And those are the types of products that, yes, technically they're securities. That's a different, in my mind, that's a different exercise. And it's an easier instrument. Like, the less instruments you have, the easier it is to sort of coalesce liquidity around it. And so I think the thing with individual companies that I think time will tell is like, as you go further out that curve,

how vibrant is that market in terms of the participation level? And I think that's something that, at least when we think about it from the issuer perspective, we want to try to make that as broad as possible. Nicholas Losurdo: Let's change gears for a sec. So one of the bright spots from the SEC's regulation of this area has been the approval of listing and trading of crypto ETPs, right? As some of those ETPs seek to get approval for in-kind creates and redeems and maybe even staking,

how do you see that affecting trading in the space? And is there anything you can see that the SEC could do to make that more viable for the market? Gregory Tusar: We would very much support the allowing of in-kind creations and redemptions and, in fact, the plumbing for that was put in place very early on. And I think having both options for issuers and for APs and investors will make for lower costs, lower frictional costs, better experience. And there really isn't any, in our estimation,

good reason to not allow for the in-kind method. On the staking point, we're quite excited about the potential and, again, supporting our issuers. This is really them driving it and us supporting them from a custody perspective. And think there are ways just with staking as it is today before we even get to the world of liquid staking tokens and all the things that will allow for an even more sort of fulsome, sort of getting to 100 percent of the fund staked in that world. But even before that, just with staking as it is,

our research would suggest that a good proportion of a fund could be staked, leaving plenty of buffer for sort of redemptions as they've happened. And that's looking not just at crypto, but in the past at other similar assets in terms of redemption size relative to fund size, et cetera. And so we think upwards -- our research would suggest upwards of 80-plus percent of the assets could be staked and still provide the necessary liquidity in the case of a redemption. And we've provided that research both to our issuers

and to regulators as well. Jon Herrick: Okay. Agree on the staking point. I think it's solvable, is probably the easiest way to say it. Issuers are willing to work with the SEC to solve it, appreciating its difference between Ethereum, Solana, and other protocols and how long the something has to be put out there to basically be a part of the staking process. I think the Create Redeem one's a really good example of like, if the SEC can get comfortable with an AP handling Bitcoin or Ethereum

to facilitate a Create Redeem, that might not be -- I mean, this is something you should get broader feedback on -- that might not be enough, right? You might find some firms that are very active and I mentioned this before, that AP-LP space is really important to understand, right? The AP is the authorized participant able to facilitate the Create Redeem. The LPs are kind of, oftentimes the same firm, right? One's in a BD, one's operating the LP trade in crypto markets out of an unregulated entity or an offshore entity.

And I think without thinking about, okay, how can those firms bring that together, right? Bring it together in a way where things are more efficient from a collateral perspective. Things are more efficient in terms of how they structure those entities. It's not just about the BD and the Create Redeem. I think you should think about the entire vertical or stack of SEC entities that are regulated and, again, understand what the objective is and get sort of broad feedback about how would market participants actually utilize that?

How would that improve outcomes for investors? And the ETF thing, I think more broadly, it was a long road, right? And I think I'm sure those of us that are here -- and I'm sure the task force would agree -- it would have been better in hindsight if that would have gotten approved faster. It's been a good thing for, I think, all of the counterparties involved in the sense that you have this emerging asset like Bitcoin. I'll use that as an example. It had found its way into the world of the CFTC,

and it had vibrant futures markets, vibrant options on futures. It took some time to get into the ETF market, but I think looking back, that's yet another success story for the ETF as a wrapper for a variety of different assets that don't fit into the typical mold of what trades on an exchange. And I think we still have some ways to make that more efficient, right? You can have options on an ETF, can have a cash-settle option on like a commodity-based index. Like, there are some areas where we can do a better job

of putting the patchwork together. I think those are some things that, to Austin's point earlier, do force meaningful trades that market participants want for real reasons offshore. And I think those are things that we should all be mindful of, but the ETF story is a good story. And I think the more clarity the Commission can bring in terms of generic ETF listing standards, that's only going to help the industry move quicker. Nicholas Losurdo: Pretty darn close to the end of the day. Maybe I'll toss it up to a round robin.

Everybody can kind of get a closing remark and keep in mind we're in this session trying to offer up ways in which the Commission can move the figurative ball forward. So Dave, maybe I'll start with you. Dave Lauer: Yeah, first of all, just thank you to everyone. Really enjoyed this. I thought it was a great discussion. I hope it was helpful and interesting. I think that it seems to me like some themes really emerged. A big part of that is getting more regulatory clarity around what traditional finance firms should be allowed to do.

Maybe guidance on expanding what they're allowed to do. I think there are a lot of interesting questions about where should things live in terms of the debate about national securities exchanges versus ATSs. And can we foster an environment in which both have a role to play? Can we try to pull more of this trading into the U.S. and into the regulated environment in a way that doesn't impact and stamp down innovation? I think there are ways to do all of these things. And I think there are some clear steps the SEC can take.

I know for me, like I've said before, absent the SEC and CFTC merging, it doesn't mean that there can't be a really strong, close working relationship and an attempt to figure out how to learn and analyze more about these markets and to start to think about what market surveillance might look like if there is this sort of regulated trading environment for digital asset securities. And as I think even just the ETF conversation illustrated, this need to let firms become more flexible in terms of the assets that they can custody

and the assets that they can trade and place that they have to trade those. And if we can start to bring those together and certainly focus on the right kinds of disclosures to reduce or eliminate conflicts of interest, highlight areas, as we were talking about before, where we have traditional disclosures in the space for execution quality and broker order routing, those kinds of things can translate directly into this space as well. And so more disclosure and simpler rules and maybe some guidance on some of these issues,

I think there's a real great path forward. Austin Reid: Great, yeah, I'll just summarize a couple of the points I think we've already hit on today. I think from our perspective -- and we talked about this, I think, both directly and implicitly throughout the conversation -- I think most people are expecting Congress to come up with the rules between securities, commodities, et cetera. I think that is ingrained in a lot of the conversation we've had today. But for whatever reason that does not happen,

I think it's an important conversation for the SEC and CFTC to be engaged in. I think that looking at how non-security and so commodity tokens can intersect with broker dealers and other SEC-regulated entities is an important exercise. And I think that that can further U.S. competition here. We talked -- or I've brought up -- offshore and outside of the U.S. markets a decent amount here today. I do think that it would make sense for the Commission to look at whether there are potential avenues of reciprocity

with some regions, and specifically what broker's role would be within that to basically access liquidity on behalf of institutional customers in those regions. And then the last thing I would say is just looking at a consolidation of regulators within the United States itself to make sure that we can be most competitive on a go-forward basis at a global scale. Gregory Tusar: I have a lot of similar things on my wish list. But I would just say at the very top of it, just how important and welcome the engagement --

and the engagement of the crypto task force and just engagement with industry -- and this dialogue in particular is just sort of critically important. And so at the top of my list is a continuation of exactly this kind of forum and the sort of meetings that we've had and are really advancing the state of things tremendously. And so that's greatly appreciated. After that, I would say the more specific rules around reforming the special purpose broker dealer, and which would allow for the creation of an ATS

with the not just side-by-side, but if integrated -- I don't know, I also don't know the right word for what we're asking for exactly -- but it's not the two things on the shelf next to each other, it's being able to trade them side-by-side, which is what I think the customer is going to expect as a user experience. And so really sitting and thinking about that and understanding how the rules would need to conform to allow for that and the necessary exemptions that would come with respect

to things like the order protection rule and things like that would be critically important. And then sort of lastly, I think the ability, in the case -- as Richard said a few times about from a transfer agency perspective -- really starting to think about using the chain as the source of truth from a record holder perspective. Those are some sort of near-term things I think that are achievable and would help us get to a place where we can start really experimenting with the true power of what this could enable.

And I think really set the United States up to the point that was made a few times, which I think is absolutely right -- the United States should be the place where this innovation is happening. And I think this would get us to the starting line in that conversation. Katherine Minarik: Well, I'll echo the thanks for being here today. I think that this is the kind of conversation that the industry has been hoping to participate in, especially in this building for years. And it's a real joy and privilege

to be here in such a collaborative and non-adversarial way. So I'm very grateful for that, and I've really enjoyed the discussion with all the other panelists. I would say one topic and then one big picture thought. One topic I'm not sure that we fully dove into -- because it's a little beyond just crypto trading, but it is relevant -- is that more record keeping and transparency, and those tools or those needs, can be served by the blockchain today in ways we couldn't have imagined

before blockchain technology. And I think that will be increasingly true as blockchains continue to develop. So I do think that for any regulator looking at markets, we should be embracing the future of blockchain technology generally as a tool for those markets. And maybe in particular -- I'm certainly not the first one to say it -- but I think it's true as a check against the potential misuse of AI in future markets as well. So that is one more granular point that I'd love to make.

But as a big picture point again, I think it's incredible that DeFi has a seat at this table, and I'm grateful for that. DeFi is valuable technology that can and will shape our global markets for the better if we let it. And so we should embrace it. Self-custody technology is one of the most important financial tools that we can give to everyday people as a check on the risk of the traditional finance system. And so I urge the commission and all regulators to embrace the development of responsible self-custodial technology.

Thank you. Richard Johnson: Great, thank you. It's been such a great conversation. I think -- I'm pleasantly surprised by the level of agreement that we have here, despite a number of diverse opinions. What I've certainly been hearing is there's a clear role for broker-dealer and ATS model to be able to leverage existing structures to protect investors and provide safe pathways to crypto trading. I think we had a lot of agreement around the registration as well, and a path forward for that through something

like a 15c2-11 type structure. Token taxonomy -- let's get that straightened out. That seems like kind of an easy one to fix early on maybe. We've been talking about it for a while. Custody as well. Greg's mentioned the special purpose broker-dealer quite a bit. And you are a qualified custodian already. And in the ATS world, we looked at -- the term is a good control location. So I think that's what you're probably trying to integrate there. We may be able -- maybe it's the SPBD,

or maybe we can leverage some of these existing structures that have been around already, like Anchorage or the state trust entities. One thing we didn't really talk about today yet is a sandbox. Maybe that's the way forward for some of these things. I'd certainly like to be able to see us -- maybe that's the easy on-ramp -- is through kind of a SEC oversight of a sandbox. I'd love to see the blockchain as the official record of ownership. I'd love to see smart contracts being used for settlement,

actually doing atomic swaps. I think a path forward for that is kind of taking this transfer agent role. And people are saying, oh, with a blockchain you don't need transfer agents. But maybe that's what a transfer agent becomes -- like fully on-chain. Maybe the transfer agent, which is a regulated entity, should have some oversight over the smart contracts. And there's some things we didn't touch on. Maybe Katherine wants to keep these out of the sandbox. But things like a DEX or an AMM --

is there a way to do that in compliance with Reg ATS? And the side-by-side pairs trading -- trading Bitcoin against Tesla or something like that. I think these are kind of all interesting topics that could be done safely in a sandbox. I think we'd learn a lot, and I think we'd move the space forward. Chelsea Pizzola: Just a couple things to close for me. Yeah, I'll echo everyone's encouragement -- hopefully -- for continued CFTC-SEC collaboration. I think as a CFTC alumna, whether or not we merge the agencies,

I do think the CFTC's principles-based approach to regulation, I think, is something that I think is beneficial for crypto and beneficial for innovation in general. I think it offers flexibility. Sort of a less prescriptive approach to regulation, I think, is important. So I think whichever regulator has jurisdiction -- if there is legislation or what have you -- I think sort of having that principles-based approach in mind, I think, can be helpful. And then just on the topic of legislation,

I think there's just already been so much that's come out of the task force and out of the commission just in the past few months that I think has been helpful. I would just say I wouldn't wait for legislation. I wouldn't assume legislation will -- I think certainly we're optimistic that it will happen, but it's not 100 percent that everyone in this room knows probably better than I do. Not 100 percent certain until it's enacted. So if I just -- to the task force -- I just want to commend you all on your great work

and say I wouldn't put a pause on regulatory clarity while you wait for legislation. So I know we've all talked a lot about legislation today, and it seems like we're all pretty optimistic. But those are just my thought. And then I also just want to echo everyone else's thanks for having us and for just the openness to the dialogue. I think it is really refreshing to be here in just such a collaborative environment -- sort of a complete 180 from the way things were just a few months ago.

So really appreciate that. Thank you all. Jon Herrick: I got two minutes. One -- alright, one. No, I want to say I think the innovation that's gone on in the crypto industry for the last ten-plus years is -- there's some remarkable technologies in it that I think have potentially transformative impacts on various areas of the sort of more established securities world, even beyond U.S. equities. I do think the thought I want to leave everyone with is -- I talked about it a little bit in my opening remarks --

the seat I sit in and my peers in the industry and the industry members, and many of the people that work here at the SEC have worked long and hard to make our markets -- our U.S. equity markets -- the envy of the world. And I think that should mean something to all of us. And the thing I'm mindful of -- I think that there's a lot of areas where we can improve outcomes with these technologies, with these approaches. We also need to be very careful we don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.

And I say that because there are many, many, many things that are imperfect with the current equity market structure. I did not participate in this conversation. I enjoyed listening to my fellow panelists talk about it. I'm not saying there's nothing to change, but that is my one ask -- is be very careful with that. And I think if you compare it to other securities markets, there are reasons why it is as resilient as it is. It is as trusted as it is. And it is as liquid as it is. So I just ask that you treat it with care.

Nicholas Losurdo: That was like 1:40, but I'll give it to you. If folks could just hang around for a minute -- I would echo the gratitude. I really feel grateful myself to be a part of this conversation, especially with this great panel, and really applaud the Commission, Commissioner Peirce, Richard, and the rest of the task force for everything they've done. Also under Chairman Uyeda's leadership. And I think this has been a great day. So thanks, everybody. Also, everyone who stuck around -- thank you.

[applause] Female Speaker: All right, guys, you almost get to go home. Several years ago, I was at Consensus in Austin, Texas, and I had my SEC badge. I was staff at the time. And when folks would see it, they would audibly boo me. And it wasn't like one or three or five people. That was the reaction that we were getting at the time. And even back then, I was working on crypto issues in the building, and I was so desperate to work towards crypto clarity. So I'm so grateful that the task force finally gets to do that.

And I really, you know, all of you commended us -- thank you -- along the ways. But that means so much, because I know it's not easy to come back to a table that feels like it was hostile. So we appreciate your collaboration. We've received over 100 written input submissions already. They're posted on our website. Each of those are read and considered, and we really look forward to reading more. And we're going to continue our work. In two weeks, just here, exactly two weeks from now,

we're going to have a custody round table. We're going to continue tackling the issues that we need to get through to provide this clarity. And after that, we'll have a round table on tokenization in May. And in June, we'll look at DeFi. So we hope that all of you will continue to come, continue to work with each other, and us, and we'll get there. Thank you so much. [applause]